§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(A) The contract employer shall ensure that each of its employees is instructed in the hazardous conditions relevant to the employee's work that the contract employer is aware of as a result of information communicated to the contract employer by the host employer under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.
(B) Before work begins, the contract employer shall advise the host employer of any unique hazardous conditions presented by the contract employer's work.
(C) The contract employer shall advise the host employer of any unanticipated hazardous conditions found during the contract employer's work that the host employer did not mention under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. The contract employer shall provide this information to the host employer within 2 working days after discovering the hazardous condition.
(iii) The contract employer and the host employer shall coordinate their work rules and procedures so that each employee of the contract employer and the host employer is protected as required by this section.
(4) Existing characteristics and conditions. Existing characteristics and conditions of electric lines and equipment that are related to the safety of the work to be performed shall be determined before work on or near the lines or equipment is started. Such characteristics and conditions include, but are not limited to:
(i) The nominal voltages of lines and equipment,
(ii) The maximum switching-transient voltages,
(iii) The presence of hazardous induced voltages,
(iv) The presence of protective grounds and equipment grounding conductors,
(v) The locations of circuits and equipment, including electric supply lines, communication lines, and fire-protective signaling circuits,
(vi) The condition of protective grounds and equipment grounding conductors,
(vii) The condition of poles, and
(viii) Environmental conditions relating to safety.
(b) Medical services and first aid. The employer shall provide medical services and first aid as required in § 1910.151. In addition to the requirements of § 1910.151, the following requirements also apply:
(1) First-aid training. When employees are performing work on, or associated with, exposed lines or equipment energized at 50 volts or more, persons with first-aid training shall be available as follows:
