§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(i) As soon as possible but not later than the effective date of this section for initial training for each current and new employee;
(ii) Prior to initial assignment for each new employee;
(iii) Whenever the employee is assigned new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines or vehicles; and
(iv) Whenever an employee demonstrates unsafe job performance.
(3) Content. At a minimum, training shall consist of the following elements:
(i) Safe performance of assigned work tasks;
(ii) Safe use, operation and maintenance of tools, machines and vehicles the employee uses or operates, including emphasis on understanding and following the manufacturer's operating and maintenance instructions, warnings and precautions;
(iii) Recognition of safety and health hazards associated with the employee's specific work tasks, including the use of measures and work practices to prevent or control those hazards;
(iv) Recognition, prevention and control of other safety and health hazards in the logging industry;
(v) Procedures, practices and requirements of the employer's work site; and
(vi) The requirements of this standard.
(4) Training of an employee due to unsafe job performance, or assignment of new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines, or vehicles; may be limited to those elements in paragraph (i)(3) of this section which are relevant to the circumstances giving rise to the need for training.
(5) Portability of training. (i) Each current employee who has received training in the particular elements specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section shall not be required to be retrained in those elements.
(ii) Each new employee who has received training in the particular elements specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section shall not be required to be retrained in those elements prior to initial assignment.
(iii) The employer shall train each current and new employee in those elements for which the employee has not received training.
(iv) The employer is responsible for ensuring that each current and new employee can properly and safely perform the work tasks and operate the tools, equipment, machines, and vehicles used in their job.
