§ 1910.1047 Ethylene oxide.
(A) Prior to assignment of the employee to an area where exposure may be at or above the action level for at least 30 days a year.
(B) At least annually each employee exposed at or above the action level for at least 30 days in the past year.
(C) At termination of employment or reassignment to an area where exposure to EtO is not at or above the action level for at least 30 days a year.
(D) As medically appropriate for any employee exposed during an emergency.
(E) As soon as possible, upon notification by an employee either (1) that the employee has developed signs or symptoms indicating possible overexposure to EtO, or (2) that the employee desires medical advice concerning the effects of current or past exposure to EtO on the employee's ability to produce a healthy child.
(F) If the examining physician determines that any of the examinations should be provided more frequently than specified, the employer shall provide such examinations to affected employees at the frequencies recommended by the physician.
(ii) Content. (A) Medical examinations made available pursuant to paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A)-(D) of this section shall include:
( 1 ) A medical and work history with special emphasis directed to symptoms related to the pulmonary, hematologic, neurologic, and reproductive systems and to the eyes and skin.
( 2 ) A physical examination with particular emphasis given to the pulmonary, hematologic, neurologic, and reproductive systems and to the eyes and skin.
( 3 ) A complete blood count to include at least a white cell count (including differential cell count), red cell count, hematocrit, and hemoglobin.
( 4 ) Any laboratory or other test which the examining physician deems necessary by sound medical practice.
(B) The content of medical examinations or consultation made available pursuant to paragraph (i)(2)(i)(E) of this section shall be determined by the examining physician, and shall include pregnancy testing or laboratory evaluation of fertility, if requested by the employee and deemed appropriate by the physician.
(3) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician:
(i) A copy of this standard and Appendices A, B, and C.
(ii) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposure.
