§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(iii) When blasting is done in congested areas or in close proximity to a structure, or any other installation that may be damaged, the blast shall be covered before firing with a mat constructed so that it is capable of preventing fragments from being thrown.
(iv) Persons authorized to prepare explosive charges or conduct blasting operations shall use every reasonable precaution, including but not limited to warning signals, flags, barricades, or woven wire mats to insure the safety of the general public and workmen.
(v) Blasting operations shall be conducted during daylight hours.
(vi) Whenever blasting is being conducted in the vicinity of gas, electric, water, fire alarm, telephone, telegraph, and steam utilities, the blaster shall notify the appropriate representatives of such utilities at least 24 hours in advance of blasting, specifying the location and intended time of such blasting. Verbal notice shall be confirmed with written notice.
(vii) Due precautions shall be taken to prevent accidental discharge of electric blasting caps from current induced by radar, radio transmitters, lightning, adjacent powerlines, dust storms, or other sources of extraneous electricity. These precautions shall include:
( a ) The suspension of all blasting operations and removal of persons from the blasting area during the approach and progress of an electric storm.
( b ) The posting of signs warning against the use of mobile radio transmitters on all roads within 350 feet of the blasting operations.
(2) Storage at use sites. (i) Empty containers and paper and fiber packing materials which have previously contained explosive materials shall be disposed of in a safe manner, or reused in accordance with the Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 177-180).
(ii) Containers of explosives shall not be opened in any magazine or within 50 feet of any magazine. In opening kegs or wooden cases, no sparking metal tools shall be used; wooden wedges and either wood, fiber or rubber mallets shall be used. Nonsparking metallic slitters may be used for opening fiberboard cases.
(iii) Explosives or blasting equipment that are obviously deteriorated or damaged shall not be used.
(iv) No explosives shall be abandoned.
(3) Loading of explosives in blast holes. (i) All drill holes shall be sufficiently large to admit freely the insertion of the cartridges of explosives.
