§ 1910.103 Hydrogen.
( f ) Heating, if provided, shall be by steam, hot water, or other indirect means.
(iii) Special rooms. ( a ) Floor, walls, and ceiling shall have a fire-resistance rating of at least 2 hours. Walls or partitions shall be continuous from floor to ceiling and shall be securely anchored. At least one wall shall be an exterior wall. Openings to other parts of the building shall not be permitted. Windows and doors shall be in exterior walls and shall be located so as to be readily accessible in case of emergency. Windows shall be of glass or plastic in metal frames.
( b ) Ventilation shall be as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)( b ) of this section.
( c ) Explosion venting shall be as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)( c ) of this section.
( d ) There shall be no sources of ignition from open flames, electrical equipment, or heating equipment.
( e ) Electric equipment shall be in accordance with the requirements of subpart S of this part for Class I, Division 2 locations.
( f ) Heating, if provided, shall be by steam, hot water, or indirect means.
(4) Operating instructions. For installations which require any operation of equipment by the user, legible instructions shall be maintained at operating locations.
(5) Maintenance. The equipment and functioning of each charged gaseous hydrogen system shall be maintained in a safe operating condition in accordance with the requirements of this section. The area within 15 feet of any hydrogen container shall be kept free of dry vegetation and combustible material.
(c) Liquefied hydrogen systems —(1) Design —(i) Containers. ( a ) Hydrogen containers shall comply with the following: Storage containers shall be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels (1968) or applicable provisions of API Standard 620, Recommended Rules for Design and Construction of Large, Welded, Low-Pressure Storage Tanks, Second Edition (June 1963) and appendix R (April 1965), which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
( b ) Portable containers shall be designed, constructed and tested in accordance with DOT Specifications and Regulations.
