§ 1910.68 Manlifts.
( a ) The cone shall make an angle of not less than 45 degrees with the horizontal. An angle of 60 degrees or greater shall be used where ceiling heights permit.
( b ) The lower edge of this guard shall extend at least 42 inches outward from any handhold on the belt. It shall not extend beyond the upper surface of the floor above.
( c ) The cone shall be made of not less than No. 18 U.S. gauge sheet steel or material of equivalent strength or stiffness. The lower edge shall be rolled to a minimum diameter of one-half inch and the interior shall be smooth with no rivets, bolts or screws protruding.
(ii) Floating type. In lieu of the fixed guards specified in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph a floating type safety cone may be used, such floating cones to be mounted on hinges at least 6 inches below the underside of the floor and so constructed as to actuate a limit switch should a force of 2 pounds be applied on the edge of the cone closest to the hinge. The depth of this floating cone need not exceed 12 inches.
(8) Protection of entrances and exits —(i) Guard rail requirement. The entrances and exits at all floor landings affording access to the manlift shall be guarded by a maze (staggered railing) or a handrail equipped with self-closing gates.
(ii) Construction. The rails shall be standard guardrails with toeboards that meet the requirements in subpart D of this part.
(iii) Gates. Gates, if used, shall open outward and shall be self-closing. Corners of gates shall be rounded.
(iv) Maze. Maze or staggered openings shall offer no direct passage between enclosure and outer floor space.
(v) Except where building layout prevents, entrances at all landings shall be in the same relative position.
(9) Guards for openings —(i) Construction. The floor opening at each landing shall be guarded on sides not used for entrance or exit by a wall, a railing and toeboard or by panels of wire mesh of suitable strength.
(ii) Height and location. Such rails or guards shall be at least 42 inches in height on the up-running side and 66 inches on the down-running side.
