§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
and logs from the stump to the point of delivery, such as, but not limited to, marking danger trees and trees/logs to be cut to length, felling, limbing, bucking, debarking, chipping, yarding, loading, unloading, storing, and transporting machines, equipment and personnel to, from and between logging sites. Machine. A piece of stationary or mobile equipment having a self-contained powerplant, that is operated off-road and used for the movement of material. Machines include, but are not limited to, tractors, skidders, front-end loaders, scrapers, graders, bulldozers, swing yarders, log stackers, log loaders, and mechanical felling devices, such as tree shears and feller-bunchers. Machines do not include airplanes or aircraft (e.g., helicopters). Rated capacity. The maximum load a system, vehicle, machine or piece of equipment was designed by the manufacturer to handle. Root wad. The ball of a tree root and dirt that is pulled from the ground when a tree is uprooted. Serviceable condition. A state or ability of a tool, machine, vehicle or other device to operate as it was intended by the manufacturer to operate. Skidding. The yarding of trees or logs by pulling or towing them across the ground. Slope (grade). The increase or decrease in altitude over a horizontal distance expressed as a percentage. For example, a change of altitude of 20 feet (6 m) over a horizontal distance of 100 feet (30 m) is expressed as a 20 percent slope. Snag. Any standing dead tree or portion thereof. Spring pole. A tree, segment of a tree, limb, or sapling which is under stress or tension due to the pressure or weight of another object. Tie down. Chain, cable, steel strips or fiber webbing and binders attached to a truck, trailer or other conveyance as a means to secure loads and to prevent them from shifting or moving when they are being transported. Undercut. A notch cut in a tree to guide the direction of the tree fall and to prevent splitting or kickback. Vehicle. A car, bus, truck, trailer or semi-trailer owned, leased or rented by the employer that is used for transportation of employees or movement of material. Winching. The winding of cable or rope onto a spool or drum. Yarding. The movement of logs from the place they are felled to a landing.