§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(7) Inoperative safety devices. No person shall render a required safety device or electrical protective device inoperative, except as necessary for tests, inspections, and maintenance. Immediately upon completion of such tests, inspections and maintenance, the device shall be restored to its normal operating condition.
(i) Operations —(1) Training. (i) Working platforms shall be operated only by persons who are proficient in the operation, safe use and inspection of the particular working platform to be operated.
(ii) All employees who operate working platforms shall be trained in the following:
(A) Recognition of, and preventive measures for, the safety hazards associated with their individual work tasks.
(B) General recognition and prevention of safety hazards associated with the use of working platforms, including the provisions in the section relating to the particular working platform to be operated.
(C) Emergency action plan procedures required in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
(D) Work procedures required in paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this section.
(E) Personal fall arrest system inspection, care, use and system performance.
(iii) Training of employees in the operation and inspection of working platforms shall be done by a competent person.
(iv) Written work procedures for the operation, safe use and inspection of working platforms shall be provided for employee training. Pictorial methods of instruction, may be used, in lieu of written work procedures, if employee communication is improved using this method. The operating manuals supplied by manufacturers for platform system components can serve as the basis for these procedures.
(v) The employer shall certify that employees have been trained in operating and inspecting a working platform by preparing a certification record which includes the identity of the person trained, the signature of the employer or the person who conducted the training and the date that training was completed. The certification record shall be prepared at the completion of the training required in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, and shall be maintained in a file for the duration of the employee's employment. The certification record shall be kept readily available for review by the Assistant Secretary of Labor or the Assistant Secretary's representative.
(2) Use. (i) Working platforms shall not be loaded in excess of the rated load, as stated on the platform load rating plate.
(ii) Employees shall be prohibited from working on snow, ice, or other slippery material covering platforms, except for the removal of such materials.
