§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(2) Shielding. Cables operated at over 2,000 volts shall be shielded for the purpose of confining the voltage stresses to the insulation.
(3) Equipment grounding conductors. Grounding conductors shall be provided.
(4) Grounding shields. All shields shall be grounded.
(5) Minimum bending radii. The minimum bending radii for portable cables during installation and handling in service shall be adequate to prevent damage to the cable.
(6) Fittings. Connectors used to connect lengths of cable in a run shall be of a type that lock firmly together. Provisions shall be made to prevent opening or closing these connectors while energized. Strain relief shall be provided at connections and terminations.
(7) Splices. Portable cables may not be operated with splices unless the splices are of the permanent molded, vulcanized, or other approved type.
(8) Terminations. Termination enclosures shall be suitably marked with a high voltage hazard warning, and terminations shall be accessible only to authorized and qualified employees.
(i) Fixture wires —(1) General. Fixture wires shall be approved for the voltage, temperature, and location of use. A fixture wire which is used as a grounded conductor shall be identified.
(2) Uses permitted. Fixture wires may be used only:
(i) For installation in lighting fixtures and in similar equipment where enclosed or protected and not subject to bending or twisting in use; or
(ii) For connecting lighting fixtures to the branch-circuit conductors supplying the fixtures.
(3) Uses not permitted. Fixture wires may not be used as branch-circuit conductors except as permitted for Class 1 power limited circuits and for fire alarm circuits.
(j) Equipment for general use —(1) Lighting fixtures, lampholders, lamps, and receptacles. (i) Fixtures, lampholders, lamps, rosettes, and receptacles may have no live parts normally exposed to employee contact. However, rosettes and cleat-type lampholders and receptacles located at least 2.44 m (8.0 ft) above the floor may have exposed terminals.
