§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(ii) Temporary wiring shall be removed immediately upon completion of the project or purpose for which the wiring was installed.
(iii) Temporary electrical installations of more than 600 volts may be used only during periods of tests, experiments, emergencies, or construction-like activities.
(iv) The following requirements apply to feeders:
(A) Feeders shall originate in an approved distribution center.
(B) Conductors shall be run as multiconductor cord or cable assemblies. However, if installed as permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C) of this section, and if accessible only to qualified persons, feeders may be run as single insulated conductors.
(v) The following requirements apply to branch circuits:
(A) Branch circuits shall originate in an approved power outlet or panelboard.
(B) Conductors shall be multiconductor cord or cable assemblies or open conductors. If run as open conductors, they shall be fastened at ceiling height every 3.05 m (10.0 ft).
(C) No branch-circuit conductor may be laid on the floor.
(D) Each branch circuit that supplies receptacles or fixed equipment shall contain a separate equipment grounding conductor if run as open conductors.
(vi) Receptacles shall be of the grounding type. Unless installed in a continuous grounded metallic raceway or metallic covered cable, each branch circuit shall contain a separate equipment grounding conductor and all receptacles shall be electrically connected to the grounding conductor.
(vii) No bare conductors nor earth returns may be used for the wiring of any temporary circuit.
(viii) Suitable disconnecting switches or plug connectors shall be installed to permit the disconnection of all ungrounded conductors of each temporary circuit. Multiwire branch circuits shall be provided with a means to disconnect simultaneously all ungrounded conductors at the power outlet or panelboard where the branch circuit originated.
Note: Note to paragraph ( a )(2)( viii ) of this section. Circuit breakers with their handles connected by approved handle ties are considered a single disconnecting means for the purpose of this requirement.
