§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(12) Drying spaces. Freshly sprayed articles shall be dried only in spaces provided with adequate ventilation to prevent the formation of explosive vapors. In the event adequate and reliable ventilation is not provided such drying spaces shall be considered a spraying area. See also paragraph (j) of this section.
(e) Flammable liquids and liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) —(1) Conformance. The storage of flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) in connection with spraying operations shall conform to the requirements of § 1910.106, where applicable.
(2) Quantity. The quantity of flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) kept in the vicinity of spraying operations shall be the minimum required for operations and should ordinarily not exceed a supply for 1 day or one shift. Bulk storage of portable containers of flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) shall be in a separate, constructed building detached from other important buildings or cut off in a standard manner.
(3) Containers. Original closed containers, approved portable tanks, approved safety cans or a properly arranged system of piping shall be used for bringing flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) into spray finishing room. Open or glass containers shall not be used.
(4) Transferring liquids. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(5) of this section the withdrawal of flammable liquids and liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) from containers having a capacity of greater than 60 gallons shall be by approved pumps. The withdrawal of flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) from containers and the filling of containers, including portable mixing tanks, shall be done only in a suitable mixing room or in a spraying area when the ventilating system is in operation. Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect against liquid spillage and sources of ignition.
