§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(vi) In certain locations sufficiently sustained high temperatures prevail which require the use of a lower vapor pressure product to be stored or the use of a higher designed pressure vessel in order to prevent the safety valves opening as the result of these temperatures. As an alternative the tanks may be protected by cooling devices such as by spraying, by shading, or other effective means.
(vii) Safety relief valves shall be arranged so that the possibility of tampering will be minimized. If pressure setting or adjustment is external, the relief valves shall be provided with approved means for sealing adjustment.
(viii) Shutoff valves shall not be installed between the safety relief devices and the container, or the equipment or piping to which the safety relief device is connected except that a shutoff valve may be used where the arrangement of this valve is such that full required capacity flow through the safety relief device is always afforded.
(ix) Safety relief valves shall have direct communication with the vapor space of the container at all times.
(x) Each container safety relief valve used with systems covered by paragraphs (d), (e), (g), and (h) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section shall be plainly and permanently marked with the following: "Container Type" of the pressure vessel on which the valve is designed to be installed; the pressure in p.s.i.g. at which the valve is set to discharge; the actual rate of discharge of the valve in cubic feet per minute of air at 60 degrees F. and 14.7 p.s.i.a.; and the manufacturer's name and catalog number, for example: T200-250-4050 AIR—indicating that the valve is suitable for use on a Type 200 container, that it is set to start to discharge at 250 p.s.i.g.; and that its rate of discharge is 4,050 cubic feet per minute of air as determined in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(xi) Safety relief valve assemblies, including their connections, shall be of sufficient size so as to provide the rate of flow required for the container on which they are installed.
