§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(iv) Master shutoff valves for both oxygen and fuel-gas shall be provided at the entry end of the portable outlet header.
(v) Portable outlet headers for fuel-gas service shall be provided with an approved hydraulic back-pressure valve installed at the inlet and preceding the service outlets, unless an approved pressure-reducing regulator, an approved back-flow check valve, or an approved hydraulic back-pressure valve is installed at each outlet. Outlets provided on headers for oxygen service may be fitted for use with pressure-reducing regulators or for direct hose connection.
(vi) Each service outlet on portable outlet headers shall be provided with a valve assembly that includes a detachable outlet seal cap, chained or otherwise attached to the body of the valve.
(vii) Materials and fabrication procedures for portable outlet headers shall comply with paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(5) of this section.
(viii) Portable outlet headers shall be provided with frames which will support the equipment securely in the correct operating position and protect them from damage during handling and operation.
(5) Manifold operation procedures. (i) Cylinder manifolds shall be installed under the supervision of someone familiar with the proper practices with reference to their construction and use.
(ii) All manifolds and parts used in methods of manifolding shall be used only for the gas or gases for which they are approved.
(iii) When acetylene cylinders are coupled, approved flash arresters shall be installed between each cylinder and the coupler block. For outdoor use only, and when the number of cylinders coupled does not exceed three, one flash arrester installed between the coupler block and regulator is acceptable.
(iv) The aggregate capacity of fuel-gas cylinders connected to a portable manifold inside a building shall not exceed 3,000 cubic feet (84 m 3 ) of gas.
(v) Acetylene and liquefied fuel-gas cylinders shall be manifolded in a vertical position.
(vi) The pressure in the gas cylinders connected to and discharged simultaneously through a common manifold shall be approximately equal.
