§ 1910.94 Ventilation.
§ 1910.94 Ventilation.
(a) Abrasive blasting —(1) Definitions applicable to this paragraph —(i) Abrasive. A solid substance used in an abrasive blasting operation.
(ii) Abrasive-blasting respirator. A respirator constructed so that it covers the wearer's head, neck, and shoulders to protect the wearer from rebounding abrasive.
(iii) Blast cleaning barrel. A complete enclosure which rotates on an axis, or which has an internal moving tread to tumble the parts, in order to expose various surfaces of the parts to the action of an automatic blast spray.
(iv) Blast cleaning room. A complete enclosure in which blasting operations are performed and where the operator works inside of the room to operate the blasting nozzle and direct the flow of the abrasive material.
(v) Blasting cabinet. An enclosure where the operator stands outside and operates the blasting nozzle through an opening or openings in the enclosure.
(vi) Clean air. Air of such purity that it will not cause harm or discomfort to an individual if it is inhaled for extended periods of time.
(vii) Dust collector. A device or combination of devices for separating dust from the air handled by an exhaust ventilation system.
(viii) Exhaust ventilation system. A system for removing contaminated air from a space, comprising two or more of the following elements ( a ) enclosure or hood, ( b ) duct work, ( c ) dust collecting equipment, ( d ) exhauster, and ( e ) discharge stack.
(ix) Particulate-filter respirator. An air purifying respirator, commonly referred to as a dust or a fume respirator, which removes most of the dust or fume from the air passing through the device.
(x) Respirable dust. Airborne dust in sizes capable of passing through the upper respiratory system to reach the lower lung passages.
(xi) Rotary blast cleaning table. An enclosure where the pieces to be cleaned are positioned on a rotating table and are passed automatically through a series of blast sprays.
(xii) Abrasive blasting. The forcible application of an abrasive to a surface by pneumatic pressure, hydraulic pressure, or centrifugal force.
