§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(C) A fitting is provided on each end of the raceway to protect the cable from abrasion, and the fittings remain accessible after installation; (D) The raceway is sealed or plugged at the outer end using approved means so as to prevent access to the enclosure through the raceway; (E) The cable sheath is continuous through the raceway and extends into the enclosure not less than 6.35 mm (0.25 in.) beyond the fitting; (F) The raceway is fastened at its outer end and at other points as necessary; and (G) Where installed as conduit or tubing, the allowable cable fill does not exceed that permitted for complete conduit or tubing systems. (2) Covers and canopies. (i) All pull boxes, junction boxes, and fittings shall be provided with covers identified for the purpose. If metal covers are used, they shall be grounded. In completed installations, each outlet box shall have a cover, faceplate, or fixture canopy. Covers of outlet boxes having holes through which flexible cord pendants pass shall be provided with bushings designed for the purpose or shall have smooth, well-rounded surfaces on which the cords may bear. (ii) Where a fixture canopy or pan is used, any combustible wall or ceiling finish exposed between the edge of the canopy or pan and the outlet box shall be covered with noncombustible material. (3) Pull and junction boxes for systems over 600 volts, nominal. In addition to other requirements in this section, the following requirements apply to pull and junction boxes for systems over 600 volts, nominal: (i) Boxes shall provide a complete enclosure for the contained conductors or cables. (ii) Boxes shall be closed by suitable covers securely fastened in place. Note: Note to paragraph ( b )(3)( ii ) of this section: Underground box covers that weigh over 45.4 kg (100 lbs) meet this requirement. (iii) Covers for boxes shall be permanently marked "HIGH VOLTAGE." The marking shall be on the outside of the box cover and shall be readily visible and legible. (c) Switches —(1) Single-throw knife switches. Single-throw knife switches shall be so placed that gravity will not tend to close them. Single-throw knife switches approved for use in the inverted position shall be provided with a locking device that will ensure that the blades remain in the open position