§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( b ) However, an explosive-laden vehicle may be left unattended if parked within a securely fenced or walled area with all gates or entrances locked where parking of such vehicle is otherwise permissible, or at a magazine site established solely for the purpose of storing explosives.
(iv) No spark-producing metal, spark-producing metal tools, oils, matches, firearms, electric storage batteries, flammable substances, acids, oxidizing materials, or corrosive compounds shall be carried in the body of any motor truck and/or vehicle transporting explosives, unless the loading of such dangerous articles and the explosives comply with U.S. Department of Transportation regulations.
(v) Vehicles transporting explosives shall avoid congested areas and heavy traffic. Where routes through congested areas have been designated by local authorities such routes shall be followed.
(vi) Delivery shall only be made to authorized persons and into authorized magazines or authorized temporary storage or handling areas.
(e) Use of explosives and blasting agents —(1) General provisions. (i) While explosives are being handled or used, smoking shall not be permitted and no one near the explosives shall possess matches, open light or other fire or flame. No person shall be allowed to handle explosives while under the influence of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or other dangerous drugs.
(ii) Original containers or Class II magazines shall be used for taking detonators and other explosives from storage magazines to the blasting area.
(iii) When blasting is done in congested areas or in close proximity to a structure, or any other installation that may be damaged, the blast shall be covered before firing with a mat constructed so that it is capable of preventing fragments from being thrown.
(iv) Persons authorized to prepare explosive charges or conduct blasting operations shall use every reasonable precaution, including but not limited to warning signals, flags, barricades, or woven wire mats to insure the safety of the general public and workmen.
(v) Blasting operations shall be conducted during daylight hours.
(vi) Whenever blasting is being conducted in the vicinity of gas, electric, water, fire alarm, telephone, telegraph, and steam utilities, the blaster shall notify the appropriate representatives of such utilities at least 24 hours in advance of blasting, specifying the location and intended time of such blasting. Verbal notice shall be confirmed with written notice.
