§ 1910.28 Duty to have fall protection and falling object protection.
(C) Replacement. When a fixed ladder, cage, or well, or any portion of a section thereof, is replaced, a personal fall arrest system or ladder safety system is installed in at least that section of the fixed ladder, cage, or well where the replacement is located; and (D) Final deadline. On and after November 18, 2036, all fixed ladders are equipped with a personal fall arrest system or a ladder safety system. (ii) When a one-section fixed ladder is equipped with a personal fall protection or a ladder safety system or a fixed ladder is equipped with a personal fall arrest or ladder safety system on more than one section, the employer must ensure: (A) The personal fall arrest system or ladder safety system provides protection throughout the entire vertical distance of the ladder, including all ladder sections; and (B) The ladder has rest platforms provided at maximum intervals of 150 feet (45.7 m). (iii) The employer must ensure ladder sections having a cage or well: (A) Are offset from adjacent sections; and (B) Have landing platforms provided at maximum intervals of 50 feet (15.2 m). (iv) The employer may use a cage or well in combination with a personal fall arrest system or ladder safety system provided that the cage or well does not interfere with the operation of the system. (10) Outdoor advertising (billboards). (i) The requirements in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, and other requirements in subparts D and I of this part, apply to fixed ladders used in outdoor advertising activities. (ii) When an employee engaged in outdoor advertising climbs a fixed ladder before November 19, 2018 that is not equipped with a cage, well, personal fall arrest system, or a ladder safety system the employer must ensure the employee: (A) Receives training and demonstrates the physical capability to perform the necessary climbs in accordance with § 1910.29(h); (B) Wears a body harness equipped with an 18-inch (46 cm) rest lanyard; (C) Keeps both hands free of tools or material when climbing on the ladder; and (D) Is protected by a fall protection system upon reaching the work position. (11) Stairways. The employer must ensure: (i) Each employee exposed to an unprotected side or edge of a stairway landing that is 4 feet (1.2 m) or more above a lower level