§ 1910.184 Slings.
(ii) Once repaired, each sling shall be permanently marked or tagged, or a written record maintained, to indicate the date and nature of the repairs and the person or organization that performed the repairs. Records of repairs shall be made available for examination.
(9) Removal from service. Metal mesh slings shall be immediately removed from service if any of the following conditions are present:
(i) A broken weld or broken brazed joint along the sling edge.
(ii) Reduction in wire diameter of 25 per cent due to abrasion or 15 per cent due to corrosion.
(iii) Lack of flexibility due to distortion of the fabric.
(iv) Distortion of the female handle so that the depth of the slot is increased more than 10 per cent.
(v) Distortion of either handle so that the width of the eye is decreased more than 10 per cent.
(vi) A 15 percent reduction of the original cross sectional area of metal at any point around the handle eye.
(vii) Distortion of either handle out of its plane.
(h) Natural and synthetic fiber-rope slings —(1) Sling use. Employers must use natural and synthetic fiber-rope slings that have permanently affixed and legible identification markings stating the rated capacity for the type(s) of hitch(es) used and the angle upon which it is based, type of fiber material, and the number of legs if more than one.
(2) Safe operating temperatures. Natural and synthetic fiber rope slings, except for wet frozen slings, may be used in a temperature range from minus 20 degrees F to plus 180 degrees F without decreasing the working load limit. For operations outside this temperature range and for wet frozen slings, the sling manufacturer's recommendations shall be followed.
(3) Splicing. Spliced fiber rope slings shall not be used unless they have been spliced in accordance with the following minimum requirements and in accordance with any additional recommendations of the manufacturer:
(i) In manila rope, eye splices shall consist of at least three full tucks, and short splices shall consist of at least six full tucks, three on each side of the splice center line.
(ii) In synthetic fiber rope, eye splices shall consist of at least four full tucks, and short splices shall consist of at least eight full tucks, four on each side of the center line.
