§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( ii ) Closing the valve nearest to the appliance and allowing the appliance to operate until the fuel in the line is consumed.
( iii ) Portable containers shall not be taken into buildings except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.
(14) Transfer of liquids. The employer shall assure that (i) at least one attendant shall remain close to the transfer connection from the time the connections are first made until they are finally disconnected, during the transfer of the product.
(ii) Containers shall be filled or used only upon authorization of the owner.
(iii) Containers manufactured in accordance with specifications of 49 CFR part 178 and authorized by 49 CFR chapter 1 as a "single trip" or "nonrefillable container" shall not be refilled or reused in LP-Gas service.
(iv) Gas or liquid shall not be vented to the atmosphere to assist in transferring contents of one container to another, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section and except that this shall not preclude the use of listed pump utilizing LP-Gas in the vapor phase as a source of energy and venting such gas to the atmosphere at a rate not to exceed that from a No. 31 drill size opening and provided that such venting and liquid transfer shall be located not less than 50 feet from the nearest important building.
(v) Filling of fuel containers for industrial trucks or motor vehicles from industrial bulk storage containers shall be performed not less than 10 feet from the nearest important masonry-walled building or not less than 25 feet from the nearest important building or other construction and, in any event, not less than 25 feet from any building opening.
(vi) Filling of portable containers, containers mounted on skids, fuel containers on farm tractors, or similar applications, from storage containers used in domestic or commercial service, shall be performed not less than 50 feet from the nearest important building.
(vii) The filling connection and the vent from the liquid level gages in containers, filled at point of installation, shall not be less than 10 feet in any direction from air openings into sealed combustion system appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes.
(viii) Fuel supply containers shall be gaged and charged only in the open air or in buildings especially provided for that purpose.
