§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(I) Openings from an inside generator room to other parts of the building shall be protected by a swinging type, self-closing fire door for a Class B opening and having a rating of at least 1 hour. Windows in partitions shall be wired glass and approved metal frames with fixed sash. Installation shall be in accordance with the Standard for the Installation of Fire Doors and Windows, NFPA 80-1970, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(ii) Inside generator rooms or outside generator houses shall be well ventilated with vents located at floor and ceiling levels.
(iii) Heating shall be by steam, hot water, enclosed electrically heated elements or other indirect means. Heating by flames or fires shall be prohibited in outside generator houses or inside generator rooms, or in any enclosure communicating with them.
(iv)(A) Generator houses or rooms shall have natural light during daylight hours. Where artificial lighting is necessary it shall be restricted to electric lamps installed in a fixed position. Unless specifically approved for use in atmospheres containing acetylene, such lamps shall be provided with enclosures of glass or other noncombustible material so designed and constructed as to prevent gas vapors from reaching the lamp or socket and to resist breakage. Rigid conduit with threaded connections shall be used.
(B) Lamps installed outside of wired-glass panels set in gas-tight frames in the exterior walls or roof of the generator house or room are acceptable.
(v) Electric switches, telephones, and all other electrical apparatus which may cause a spark, unless specifically approved for use inside acetylene generator rooms, shall be located outside the generator house or in a room or space separated from the generator room by a gas-tight partition, except that where the generator system is designed so that no carbide fill opening or other part of the generator is open to the generator house or room during the operation of the generator, and so that residue is carried in closed piping from the residue discharge valve to a point outside the generator house or room, electrical equipment in the generator house or room shall conform to the provisions of subpart S of this part for Class I, Division 2 locations.
(7) Maintenance and operation. (i) Unauthorized persons shall not be permitted in outside generator houses or inside generator rooms.
(A) Operating instructions shall be posted in a conspicuous place near the generator or kept in a suitable place available for ready reference.
