§ 1910.430 Equipment.
(a) General. (1) All employers shall comply with the following requirements, unless otherwise specified.
(2) Each equipment modification, repair, test, calibration or maintenance service shall be recorded by means of a tagging or logging system, and include the date and nature of work performed, and the name or initials of the person performing the work.
(b) Air compressor system. (1) Compressors used to supply air to the diver shall be equipped with a volume tank with a check valve on the inlet side, a pressure gauge, a relief valve, and a drain valve.
(2) Air compressor intakes shall be located away from areas containing exhaust or other contaminants.
(3) Respirable air supplied to a diver shall not contain:
(i) A level of carbon monoxide (CO) greater than 20 p/m;
(ii) A level of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) greater than 1,000 p/m;
(iii) A level of oil mist greater than 5 milligrams per cubic meter; or
(iv) A noxious or pronounced odor.
(4) The output of air compressor systems shall be tested for air purity every 6 months by means of samples taken at the connection to the distribution system, except that non-oil lubricated compressors need not be tested for oil mist.
(c) Breathing gas supply hoses. (1) Breathing gas supply hoses shall:
(i) Have a working pressure at least equal to the working pressure of the total breathing gas system;
(ii) Have a rated bursting pressure at least equal to 4 times the working pressure;
(iii) Be tested at least annually to 1.5 times their working pressure; and
(iv) Have their open ends taped, capped or plugged when not in use.
(2) Breathing gas supply hose connectors shall:
(i) Be made of corrosion-resistant materials;
(ii) Have a working pressure at least equal to the working pressure of the hose to which they are attached; and
(iii) Be resistant to accidental disengagement.
(3) Umbilicals shall:
(i) Be marked in 10-ft. increments to 100 feet beginning at the diver's end, and in 50 ft. increments thereafter;
(ii) Be made of kink-resistant materials; and
