§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(4) Hydraulic and pneumatic tools. (i) Safe operating pressures for hydraulic and pneumatic tools, hoses, valves, pipes, filters, and fittings may not be exceeded.
Note: Note to paragraph ( i )(4)( i ): If any hazardous defects are present, no operating pressure is safe, and the hydraulic or pneumatic equipment involved may not be used. In the absence of defects, the maximum rated operating pressure is the maximum safe pressure.
(ii) A hydraulic or pneumatic tool used where it may contact exposed energized parts shall be designed and maintained for such use.
(iii) The hydraulic system supplying a hydraulic tool used where it may contact exposed live parts shall provide protection against loss of insulating value, for the voltage involved, due to the formation of a partial vacuum in the hydraulic line.
Note: Note to paragraph ( i )(4)( iii ): Use of hydraulic lines that do not have check valves and that have a separation of more than 10.7 meters (35 feet) between the oil reservoir and the upper end of the hydraulic system promotes the formation of a partial vacuum.
(iv) A pneumatic tool used on energized electric lines or equipment, or used where it may contact exposed live parts, shall provide protection against the accumulation of moisture in the air supply.
(v) Pressure shall be released before connections are broken, unless quick-acting, self-closing connectors are used.
(vi) Employers must ensure that employees do not use any part of their bodies to locate, or attempt to stop, a hydraulic leak.
(vii) Hoses may not be kinked.
(j) Live-line tools —(1) Design of tools. Live-line tool rods, tubes, and poles shall be designed and constructed to withstand the following minimum tests:
(i) If the tool is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP), it shall withstand 328,100 volts per meter (100,000 volts per foot) of length for 5 minutes, or
Note: Note to paragraph ( j )(1)( i ): Live-line tools using rod and tube that meet ASTM F711-02 (2007), Standard Specification for Fiberglass-Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Rod and Tube Used in Live Line Tools, are deemed to comply with paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
