§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( b ) In lieu of separation walls, ammonium nitrate may be separated from the materials referred to in paragraph ( a ) of this section by a space of at least 30 feet. ( c ) Flammable liquids such as gasoline, kerosene, solvents, and light fuel oils shall not be stored on the premises except when such storage conforms to § 1910.106, and when walls and sills or curbs are provided in accordance with paragraphs (i)(5)(i) ( a ) or ( b ) of this section. ( d ) LP-Gas shall not be stored on the premises except when such storage conforms to § 1910.110. (ii)( a ) Sulfur and finely divided metals shall not be stored in the same building with ammonium nitrate except when such storage conforms to paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section. ( b ) Explosives and blasting agents shall not be stored in the same building with ammonium nitrate except on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents. ( c ) Where explosives or blasting agents are stored in separate buildings, other than on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents, they shall be separated from the ammonium nitrate by the distances and/or barricades specified in Table H-22 of this subpart, but by not less than 50 feet. ( d ) Storage and/or operations on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents shall be in conformity with paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section. (6) General precautions. (i) Electrical installations shall conform to the requirements of subpart S of this part, for ordinary locations. They shall be designed to minimize damage from corrosion. (ii) In areas where lightning storms are prevalent, lightning protection shall be provided. (See the Lightning Protection Code, NFPA 78-1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.) (iii) Provisions shall be made to prevent unauthorized personnel from entering the ammonium nitrate storage area. (7) Fire protection. (i) Not more than 2,500 tons (2270 tonnes) of bagged ammonium nitrate shall be stored in a building or structure not equipped with an automatic sprinkler system. Sprinkler systems shall be of the approved type and installed in