§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( a ) Containers may be installed horizontally or vertically.
( b ) Containers shall be protected by crash rails or guards to prevent physical damage unless they are so protected by virtue of their location. Vehicles shall not be serviced within 10 feet of containers.
( c ) Container foundations shall be of substantial masonry or other noncombustible material. Containers shall be mounted on saddles which shall permit expansion and contraction, and shall provide against the excessive concentration of stresses. Corrosion protection shall be provided for tank-mounting areas. Structural metal container supports shall be protected against fire. This protection is not required on prefabricated storage and pump assemblies, mounted on a common base, with container bottom not more than 24 inches above ground and whose water capacity is 2,000 gallons or less if the piping connected to the storage and pump assembly is sufficiently flexible to minimize the possibility of breakage or leakage in the event of failure of the container supports.
(iii) Underground containers shall be installed in accordance with this subdivision.
( a ) Containers shall be given a protective coating before being placed under ground. This coating shall be equivalent to hot-dip galvanizing or to two coatings of red lead followed by a heavy coating of coal tar or asphalt. In lowering the container into place, care shall be exercised to minimize abrasion or other damage to the coating. Damage to the coating shall be repaired before back-filling.
( b ) Containers shall be set on a firm foundation (firm earth may be used) and surrounded with earth or sand firmly tamped in place. Backfill should be free of rocks or other abrasive materials.
( c ) A minimum of 2 feet of earth cover shall be provided. Where ground conditions make compliance with this requirement impractical, equivalent protection against physical damage shall be provided. The portion of the container to which manhole and other connections are attached need not be covered. If the location is subjected to vehicular traffic, containers shall be protected by a concrete slab or other cover adequate to prevent the weight of a loaded vehicle imposing concentrated direct loads on the container shell.
(7) Protection of container fittings. Valves, regulators, gages, and other container fittings shall be protected against tampering and physical damage.
