§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(xv) Agricultural equipment employing open flames or equipment with integral containers, such as flame cultivators, weed burners, and, in addition, tractors, shall be shut down during refueling.
(15) Tank car or transport truck loading or unloading points and operations. (i) The track of tank car siding shall be relatively level.
(ii) A "Tank Car Connected" sign, as covered by DOT rules, shall be installed at the active end or ends of the siding while the tank car is connected.
(iii) While cars are on sidetrack for loading or unloading, the wheels at both ends shall be blocked on the rails.
(iv) The employer shall insure that an employee is in attendance at all times while the tank car, cars, or trucks are being loaded or unloaded.
(v) A backflow check valve, excess-flow valve, or a shutoff valve with means of remote closing, to protect against uncontrolled discharge of LP-Gas from storage tank piping shall be installed close to the point where the liquid piping and hose or swing joint pipe is connected.
(vi) Where practical, the distance of the unloading or loading point shall conform to the distances in subparagraph (6)(ii) of this paragraph.
(16) Instructions. Personnel performing installation, removal, operation, and maintenance work shall be properly trained in such function.
(17) Electrical equipment and other sources of ignition. (i) Electrical equipment and wiring shall be of a type specified by and shall be installed in accordance with subpart S of this part, for ordinary locations except that fixed electrical equipment in classified areas shall comply with subparagraph (18) of this paragraph.
(ii) Open flames or other sources of ignition shall not be permitted in vaporizer rooms (except those housing direct-fired vaporizers), pumphouses, container charging rooms or other similar locations. Direct-fired vaporizers shall not be permitted in pumphouses or container charging rooms.
(iii) Liquefied petroleum gas storage containers do not require lightning protection.
(iv) Since liquefied petroleum gas is contained in a closed system of piping and equipment, the system need not be electrically conductive or electrically bonded for protection against static electricity.
