§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(v) Intermittently stabilized platforms. (A) The platform shall comply with paragraphs (F)(5)(ii) (A) through (M) of this section.
(B) Each stabilizer tie shall be equipped with a "quick connect-quick disconnect" device which cannot be accidently disengaged, for attachment to the building anchor, and shall be resistant to adverse environmental conditions.
(C) The platform shall be provided with a stopping device that will interrupt the hoist power supply in the event the platform contacts a stabilizer tie during its ascent.
(D) Building face rollers shall not be placed at the anchor setting if exterior anchors are used on the building face.
(E) Stabilizer ties used on intermittently stabilized platforms shall allow for the specific attachment length needed to effect the predetermined angulation of the suspended wire rope. The specific attachment length shall be maintained at all building anchor locations.
(F) The platform shall be in continuous contact with the face of the building during ascent and descent.
(G) The attachment and removal of stabilizer ties shall not require the horizontal movement of the platform.
(H) The platform-mounted equipment and its suspension wire ropes shall not be physically damaged by the loads from the stabilizer tie or its building anchor. The platform, platform mounted equipment and wire ropes shall be able to withstand a load that is at least twice the ultimate strength of the stabilizer tie.
Note: Note: See figure II in appendix B of this section for a description of a typical intermittent stabilization system.
(vi) Button-guide stabilized platforms. (A) The platform shall comply with paragraphs (f)(5)(ii) (A) through (M) of this section.
(B) Each guide track on the platform shall engage a minimum of two guide buttons during any vertical travel of the platform following the initial button engagement.
(C) Each guide track on a platform that is part of a roof rigged system shall be provided with a storage position on the platform.
(D) Each guide track on the platform shall be sufficiently maneuverable by platform occupants to permit easy engagement of the guide buttons, and easy movement into and out of its storage position on the platform.
(E) Two guide tracks shall be mounted on the platform and shall provide continuous contact with the building face.
