§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(iii) An emergency alarm and shutoff shall be located in the condenser system to respond to excess discharge pressure caused by failure of the cooling medium.
(iv) All automatic controls shall be installed in a manner to preclude operation of alternate compressors unless the controls will function with the alternate compressors.
(12) Separators for compressors. (i) An entrainment separator of suitable size and design pressure shall be installed in the compressor suction line of lubricated compression. The separator shall be equipped with a drain and gaging device.
(ii) [Reserved]
(13) Condensers. The condenser system may be cooled by air or water or both. The condenser shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. Provision shall be made for purging noncondensibles either manually or automatically.
(14) Receiver and liquid drain. A receiver shall be provided with a liquid-level control to discharge the liquid ammonia to storage. The receiver shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. and be equipped with the necessary connections, safety valves, and gaging device.
(15) Insulation. Refrigerated containers and pipelines which are insulated shall be covered with a material of suitable quality and thickness for the temperatures encountered. Insulation shall be suitably supported and protected against the weather. Weatherproofing shall be of a type which will not support flame propagation.
(e) Systems utilizing portable DOT containers —(1) Conformance. Cylinders shall comply with DOT specifications and shall be maintained, filled, packaged, marked, labeled, and shipped to comply with 49 CFR chapter I and the marking requirements set forth in § 1910.253(b)(1)(ii).
(2) Storage. Cylinders shall be stored in an area free from ignitable debris and in such manner as to prevent external corrosion. Storage may be indoors or outdoors.
(3) Heat protection. Cylinders filled in accordance with DOT regulations will become liquid full at 145 degrees F. Cylinders shall be protected from heat sources such as radiant flame and steampipes. Heat shall not be applied directly to cylinders to raise the pressure.
(4) Protection. Cylinders shall be stored in such manner as to protect them from moving vehicles or external damage.
