§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(ii) Stacking dissimilar unit packages. Long units of lumber shall not be stacked upon shorter packages except where a stable pile can be made with the use of package separators.
(iii) Unstable piles. Piles of lumber which have become unstable shall be immediately made safe, or the area into which they might fall shall be fenced or barricaded and employees prohibited from entering it.
(iv) Stickers. Unit packages of lumber shall be provided with stickers as necessary to insure stability under ordinary operating conditions.
(v) Sticker alignment. Stickers shall extend the full width of the package, shall be uniformly spaced, and shall be aligned one above the other. Stickers may be lapped with a minimum overlapping of 12 inches. Stickers shall not protrude more than 2 inches beyond the sides of the package.
(vi) Pile height. The height of unit package piles shall be dependent on the dimensions of the packages and shall be such as to provide stability under normal operating conditions. Adjacent lumber piles may be tied together with separators to increase stability.
(28) Lumber loading. Loads shall be built and secured to insure stability in transit.
(29) Burners —(i) Guying. If the burner stack is not self-supporting, it shall be guyed or otherwise supported.
(ii) Runway. The conveyor runway to the burner shall be equipped with a standard handrail. If the runway crosses a roadway or thoroughfare, standard toe boards shall be provided in addition.
(30) Vehicles —(i) Scope. Vehicles shall include all mobile equipment normally used in sawmill, planing mill, storage, shipping, and yard operations.
(ii) Warning signals and spark arrestors. All vehicles shall be equipped with audible warning signals and where practicable shall have spark arrestors.
(iii) Lights. All vehicles operated in the dark or in poorly lighted areas shall be equipped with head and tail lights.
(iv) Overhead guard. All vehicles operated in areas where overhead hazards exist shall be equipped with an approved overhead guard. See American National Standard Safety Code for Powered Industrial Trucks, B56.1—1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(v) Platform guard. Where the operator is exposed to hazard from backing the vehicle into objects, an approved platform guard shall be provided and so arranged as to not impede exit of driver from vehicle.
(vi) [Reserved]
