§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(v) Combustible material, combustible buildings and parts of buildings, fire escapes, and door and window openings shall be safeguarded from fires that may originate in oil-insulated transformers attached to or adjacent to a building or combustible material.
(vi) Transformer vaults shall be constructed so as to contain fire and combustible liquids within the vault and to prevent unauthorized access. Locks and latches shall be so arranged that a vault door can be readily opened from the inside.
(vii) Any pipe or duct system foreign to the electrical installation may not enter or pass through a transformer vault.
Note: Note to paragraph ( j )(5)( vii ) of this section. Piping or other facilities provided for vault fire protection, or for transformer cooling, are not considered foreign to the electrical installation.
(viii) Material may not be stored in transformer vaults.
(6) Capacitors. (i) All capacitors, except surge capacitors or capacitors included as a component part of other apparatus, shall be provided with an automatic means of draining the stored charge after the capacitor is disconnected from its source of supply.
(ii) The following requirements apply to capacitors installed on circuits operating at more than 600 volts, nominal:
(A) Group-operated switches shall be used for capacitor switching and shall be capable of the following:
( 1 ) Carrying continuously not less than 135 percent of the rated current of the capacitor installation;
( 2 ) Interrupting the maximum continuous load current of each capacitor, capacitor bank, or capacitor installation that will be switched as a unit;
( 3 ) Withstanding the maximum inrush current, including contributions from adjacent capacitor installations; and
( 4 ) Carrying currents due to faults on the capacitor side of the switch;
(B) A means shall be installed to isolate from all sources of voltage each capacitor, capacitor bank, or capacitor installation that will be removed from service as a unit. The isolating means shall provide a visible gap in the electric circuit adequate for the operating voltage;
(C) Isolating or disconnecting switches (with no interrupting rating) shall be interlocked with the load interrupting device or shall be provided with prominently displayed caution signs to prevent switching load current; and
