§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( 1 ) The total water capacity of containers connected to any one manifold is not greater than 2,450 pounds (nominal 1,000 pounds LP-Gas capacity) and;
( 2 ) Where more than one manifold having a total water capacity greater than 735 pounds (nominal 300 pounds LP-Gas capacity) are located in the same unpartitioned area, they shall be separated by at least 50 feet.
( f ) Storage of containers awaiting use shall be in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(vi) Containers are permitted to be used in industrial occupancies for processing, research, or experimental purposes as follows:
( a ) The maximum water capacity of individual containers shall be 245 pounds (nominal 100 pounds LP-Gas capacity).
( b ) Containers connected to a manifold shall have a total water capacity not greater than 735 pounds (nominal 300 pounds LP-Gas capacity) and not more than one such manifold may be located in the same room unless separated at least 20 feet from a similar unit.
( c ) The amount of LP-Gas in containers for research and experimental use shall be limited to the smallest practical quantity.
(vii)( a ) Containers are permitted to be used in industrial occupancies with essentially noncombustible contents where portable equipment for space heating is essential and where a permanent heating installation is not practical, as follows:
( b ) Containers and heaters shall comply with and be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section.
(viii) Containers are permitted to be used in buildings for temporary emergency heating purposes, if necessary to prevent damage to the buildings or contents, when the permanent heating system is temporarily out of service, as follows:
( a ) Containers and heaters shall comply with and be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section.
( b ) The temporary heating equipment shall not be left unattended.
(ix) Containers are permitted to be used temporarily in buildings for training purposes related in installation and use of LP-Gas systems, as follows:
( a ) The maximum water capacity of individual containers shall be 245 pounds (nominal 100 pounds LP-Gas capacity), but the maximum quantity of LP-Gas that may be placed in each container shall be 20 pounds.
