§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
( b ) Being a single control protected against accidental actuation and so located that the worker cannot reach into the point of operation while operating the single control.
(v) Two-hand controls for single stroke shall conform to the following requirements:
( a ) Each hand control shall be protected against unintended operation and arranged by design, construction, and/or separation so that the concurrent use of both hands is required to trip the press.
( b ) The control system shall be designed to permit an adjustment which will require concurrent pressure from both hands during the die closing portion of the stroke.
( c ) The control system shall incorporate an antirepeat feature.
( d ) The control systems shall be designed to require release of all operators' hand controls before an interrupted stroke can be resumed. This requirement pertains only to those single-stroke, two-hand controls manufactured and installed on or after August 31, 1971.
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Controls for more than one operating station shall be designed to be activated and deactivated in complete sets of two operator's hand controls per operating station by means capable of being supervised by the employer. The clutch/brake control system shall be designed and constructed to prevent actuation of the clutch if all operating stations are bypassed.
(viii) Those clutch/brake control systems which contain both single and continuous functions shall be designed so that completion of continuous circuits may be supervised by the employer. The initiation of continuous run shall require a prior action or decision by the operator in addition to the selection of Continuous on the stroking selector, before actuation of the operating means will result in continuous stroking.
(ix) If foot control is provided, the selection method between hand and foot control shall be separate from the stroking selector and shall be designed so that the selection may be supervised by the employer.
(x) Foot operated tripping controls, if used, shall be protected so as to prevent operation from falling or moving objects, or from unintended operation by accidental stepping onto the foot control.
