§ 1910.155 Scope, application and definitions applicable to this subpart.
(B) Equipment is labeled if there is attached to it a label, symbol, or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized testing laboratory which makes periodic inspections of the production of such equipment, and whose labeling indicates compliance with nationally recognized standards or tests to determine safe use in a specified manner;
(C) Equipment is accepted if it has been inspected and found by a nationally recognized testing laboratory to conform to specified plans or to procedures of applicable codes; and
(D) Equipment is certified if it has been tested and found by a nationally recognized testing laboratory to meet nationally recognized standards or to be safe for use in a specified manner or is of a kind whose production is periodically inspected by a nationally recognized testing laboratory, and if it bears a label, tag, or other record of certification.
(E) Refer to § 1910.7 for definition of nationally recognized testing laboratory.
(4) Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or designee.
(5) Automatic fire detection device means a device designed to automatically detect the presence of fire by heat, flame, light, smoke or other products of combustion.
(6) Buddy-breathing device means an accessory to self-contained breathing apparatus which permits a second person to share the same air supply as that of the wearer of the apparatus.
(7) Carbon dioxide means a colorless, odorless, electrically nonconductive inert gas (chemical formula CO 2 ) that is a medium for extinguishing fires by reducing the concentration of oxygen or fuel vapor in the air to the point where conbustion is impossible.
(8) Class A fire means a fire involving ordinary combustible materials such as paper, wood, cloth, and some rubber and plastic materials.
(9) Class B fire means a fire involving flammable or combustible liquids, flammable gases, greases and similar materials, and some rubber and plastic materials.
(10) Class C fire means a fire involving energized electrical equipment where safety to the employee requires the use of electrically nonconductive extinguishing media.
(11) Class D fire means a fire involving combustible metals such as magnesium, titanium, zirconium, sodium, lithium and potassium.
