§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(ii) After adjustments and repairs have been made the crane shall not be operated until all guards have been reinstalled, safety devices reactivated and maintenance equipment removed.
(3) Adjustments and repairs. (i) Any unsafe conditions disclosed by the inspection requirements of paragraph (j) of this section shall be corrected before operation of the crane is resumed. Adjustments and repairs shall be done only by designated personnel.
(ii) Adjustments shall be maintained to assure correct functioning of components. The following are examples:
( a ) All functional operating mechanisms.
( b ) Limit switches.
( c ) Control systems.
( d ) Brakes.
( e ) Power plants.
(iii) Repairs or replacements shall be provided promptly as needed for safe operation. The following are examples:
( a ) Crane hooks showing defects described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii) of this section shall be discarded. Repairs by welding or reshaping are not generally recommended. If such repairs are attempted they shall only be done under competent supervision and the hook shall be tested to the load requirements of paragraph (k)(2) of this section before further use.
( b ) Load attachment chains and rope slings showing defects described in paragraph (j)(2) (iv) and (v) of this section respectively.
( c ) All critical parts which are cracked, broken, bent, or excessively worn.
( d ) Pendant control stations shall be kept clean and function labels kept legible.
(m) Rope inspection —(1) Running ropes. A thorough inspection of all ropes shall be made at least once a month and a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and an identifier for the ropes which were inspected shall be kept on file where readily available to appointed personnel. Any deterioration, resulting in appreciable loss of original strength, shall be carefully observed and determination made as to whether further use of the rope would constitute a safety hazard. Some of the conditions that could result in an appreciable loss of strength are the following:
(i) Reduction of rope diameter below nominal diameter due to loss of core support, internal or external corrosion, or wear of outside wires.
(ii) A number of broken outside wires and the degree of distribution or concentration of such broken wires.
(iii) Worn outside wires.
