§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(vi) A backcut shall be made in each tree being felled. The backcut shall leave sufficient hinge wood to hold the tree to the stump during most of its fall so that the hinge is able to guide the tree's fall in the intended direction.
(vii) The backcut shall be above the level of the horizontal facecut in order to provide an adequate platform to prevent kickback. Exception: The backcut may be at or below the horizontal facecut in tree pulling operations.
Note: Note to paragraph ( h )(2)( vii ): This requirement does not apply to open face felling where two angled facecuts rather than a horizontal facecut are used.
(3) Limbing and bucking. (i) Limbing and bucking on any slope where rolling or sliding of trees or logs is reasonably foreseeable shall be done on the uphill side of each tree or log.
(ii) Before bucking or limbing wind-thrown trees, precautions shall be taken to prevent the root wad, butt or logs from striking an employee. These precautions include, but are not limited to, chocking or moving the tree to a stable position.
(4) Chipping (in-woods locations). (i) Chipper access covers or doors shall not be opened until the drum or disc is at a complete stop.
(ii) Infeed and discharge ports shall be guarded to prevent contact with the disc, knives, or blower blades.
(iii) The chipper shall be shut down and locked out in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.147 when an employee performs any servicing or maintenance.
(iv) Detached trailer chippers shall be chocked during usage on any slope where rolling or sliding of the chipper is reasonably foreseeable.
(5) Yarding. (i) No log shall be moved until each employee is in the clear.
(ii) Each choker shall be hooked and unhooked from the uphill side or end of the log, unless the employer demonstrates that is it not feasible in the particular situation to hook or unhook the choker from the uphill side. Where the choker is hooked or unhooked from the downhill side or end of the log, the log shall be securely chocked to prevent rolling, sliding or swinging.
(iii) Each choker shall be positioned near the end of the log or tree length.
