§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(C) The results of the medical examination and tests if requested by the employee.
(D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and any medical conditions which require further examination or treatment.
(ii) The written opinion obtained by the employer shall not reveal specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposures.
(8) Recordkeeping. (i) An accurate record of the medical surveillance required by paragraph (f) of this section shall be retained. This record shall be retained for the period specified and meet the criteria of 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(ii) The record required in paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section shall include at least the following information:
(A) The name and social security number of the employee;
(B) Physician's written opinions, recommended limitations, and results of examinations and tests;
(C) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to hazardous substances;
(D) A copy of the information provided to the examining physician by the employer, with the exception of the standard and its appendices.
(g) Engineering controls, work practices, and personal protective equipment for employee protection. Engineering controls, work practices, personal protective equipment, or a combination of these shall be implemented in accordance with this paragraph to protect employees from exposure to hazardous substances and safety and health hazards.
(1) Engineering controls, work practices and PPE for substances regulated in subparts G and Z. (i) Engineering controls and work practices shall be instituted to reduce and maintain employee exposure to or below the permissible exposure limits for substances regulated by 29 CFR part 1910, to the extent required by subpart Z, except to the extent that such controls and practices are not feasible.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(1)( i ): Engineering controls which may be feasible include the use of pressurized cabs or control booths on equipment, and/or the use of remotely operated material handling equipment. Work practices which may be feasible are removing all non-essential employees from potential exposure during opening of drums, wetting down dusty operations and locating employees upwind of possible hazards.
