§ 1910.1200 Hazard communication.
Ingredient classified as: Category 1 carcinogen Category 2 carcinogen --------------------------------------------------------------------- Category 1 carcinogen >=0.1% Category 2 carcinogen >=0.1% (note 1). Figure A.7.1( a )—Hazard Categories for Reproductive Toxicants -------------------------------------------------------------- CATEGORY 1: Known or presumed human reproductive toxicant. Substance shall be classified in Category 1 for reproductive toxicity when they are known to have produced an adverse effect on sexual function and fertility or on development in humans or when there is evidence from animal studies, possibly supplemented with other information, to provide a strong presumption that the substance has the capacity to interfere with reproduction in humans. The classification of a substance is further distinguished on the basis of whether the evidence for classification is primarily from human data (Category 1A) or from animal data (Category 1B). Category 1A: Known human reproductive toxicant. The classification of a substance in this category is largely based on evidence from humans. Category 1B: Presumed human reproductive toxicant. The classification of a substance in this category is largely based on evidence from experimental animals. Data from animal studies shall provide sufficient evidence of an adverse effect on sexual function and fertility or on development in the absence of other toxic effects, or if occurring together with other toxic effects the adverse effect on reproduction is considered not to be a secondary non-specific consequence of other toxic effects. However, when there is mechanistic information that raises doubt about the relevance of the effect for humans, classification in Category 2 may be more appropriate. CATEGORY 2: Suspected human reproductive toxicant. Substances shall be classified in Category 2 for reproductive toxicity when there is some evidence from humans or experimental animals, possibly supplemented with other information, of an adverse effect on sexual function and fertility, or on development, in the absence of other toxic effects, or if occurring together with other toxic effects the adverse