§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(6) Planers —(i) Guards. ( a ) All cutting heads shall be guarded.
( b ) Side head hoods shall be of sufficient height to safeguard the head setscrew.
( c ) Pressure feed rolls and "pineapples" shall be guarded.
( d ) Levers or controls shall be so arranged or guarded as to reduce the possibility of accidental operation.
(f) Dry kilns and facilities —(1) Kiln foundations. Dry kilns shall be constructed upon solid foundations to prevent tracks from sagging
(2) Passageways. A passageway shall be provided to give adequate clearance on at least one side or in the center of end-piled kilns and on two sides of cross-piled kilns.
(3) Doors —(i) Main kiln doors. ( a ) Main kiln doors shall be provided with a method of holding them open while kiln is being loaded.
( b ) Counterweights on vertical lift doors shall be boxed or otherwise guarded.
( c ) Adequate means shall be provided to firmly secure main doors, when they are disengaged from carriers and hangers, to prevent toppling.
(ii) Escape doors. ( a ) If operating procedures require access to kilns, kilns shall be provided with escape doors that operate easily from the inside, swing in the direction of exit, and are located in or near the main door at the end of the passageway.
( b ) Escape doors shall be of adequate height and width to accommodate an average size man.
(4) Pits. Pits shall be well ventilated, drained, and lighted, and shall be large enough to safely accommodate the kiln operator together with operating devices such as valves, dampers, damper rods, and traps.
(5) Steam mains. All high-pressure steam mains located in or adjacent to an operating pit shall be covered with heat-insulating material.
(6) Ladders. A fixed ladder complying with the requirements of subpart D of this part, or other adequate means, shall be provided to permit access to the roof. Where controls and machinery are mounted on the roof, a permanent stairway with standard handrail shall be installed in accordance with the requirements in subpart D.
