§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(ii) In areas restricted to qualified employees, materials may not be stored within the working space about energized lines or equipment.
Note: Note to paragraph ( k )(2)( ii ): Paragraphs (u)(1) and (v)(3) of this section specify the size of the working space.
(l) Working on or near exposed energized parts. This paragraph applies to work on exposed live parts, or near enough to them to expose the employee to any hazard they present.
(1) General. (i) Only qualified employees may work on or with exposed energized lines or parts of equipment.
(ii) Only qualified employees may work in areas containing unguarded, uninsulated energized lines or parts of equipment operating at 50 volts or more.
(iii) Electric lines and equipment shall be considered and treated as energized unless they have been deenergized in accordance with paragraph (d) or (m) of this section.
(2) At least two employees. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, at least two employees shall be present while any employees perform the following types of work:
(A) Installation, removal, or repair of lines energized at more than 600 volts,
(B) Installation, removal, or repair of deenergized lines if an employee is exposed to contact with other parts energized at more than 600 volts,
(C) Installation, removal, or repair of equipment, such as transformers, capacitors, and regulators, if an employee is exposed to contact with parts energized at more than 600 volts,
(D) Work involving the use of mechanical equipment, other than insulated aerial lifts, near parts energized at more than 600 volts, and
(E) Other work that exposes an employee to electrical hazards greater than, or equal to, the electrical hazards posed by operations listed specifically in paragraphs (l)(2)(i)(A) through (l)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) Paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to the following operations:
(A) Routine circuit switching, when the employer can demonstrate that conditions at the site allow safe performance of this work,
