§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(14) Small arms ammunition primers. Small arms ammunition primers—small percussion-sensitive explosive charges, encased in a cup, used to ignite propellant powder.
(15) Smokeless propellants. Smokeless propellants—solid propellants, commonly called smokeless powders in the trade, used in small arms ammunition, cannon, rockets, propellant-actuated power devices, etc.
(16) Special industrial explosives devices. Special industrial explosives devices—explosive-actuated power devices and propellant-actuated power devices.
(17) Special industrial explosives materials. Special industrial explosives materials—shaped materials and sheet forms and various other extrusions, pellets, and packages of high explosives, which include dynamite, trinitrotoluene (TNT), pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN), hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-s-triazine (RDX), and other similar compounds used for high-energy-rate forming, expanding, and shaping in metal fabrication, and for dismemberment and quick reduction of scrap metal.
(18) Water gels or slurry explosives. These comprise a wide variety of materials used for blasting. They all contain substantial proportions of water and high proportions of ammonium nitrate, some of which is in solution in the water. Two broad classes of water gels are (i) those which are sensitized by a material classed as an explosive, such as TNT or smokeless powder, (ii) those which contain no ingredient classified as an explosive; these are sensitized with metals such as aluminum or with other fuels. Water gels may be premixed at an explosives plant or mixed at the site immediately before delivery into the borehole.
(19) DOT specifications. Regulations of the Department of Transportation published in 49 CFR chapter I.
(b) Miscellaneous provisions —(1) General hazard. No person shall store, handle, or transport explosives or blasting agents when such storage, handling, and transportation of explosives or blasting agents constitutes an undue hazard to life.
(2) [Reserved]
(c) Storage of explosives —(1) General provisions. (i) All Class A, Class B, Class C explosives, and special industrial explosives, and any newly developed and unclassified explosives, shall be kept in magazines which meet the requirements of this paragraph.
