§ 1910.94 Ventilation.
(8) Scope. This paragraph (a) applies to all operations where an abrasive is forcibly applied to a surface by pneumatic or hydraulic pressure, or by centrifugal force. It does not apply to steam blasting, or steam cleaning, or hydraulic cleaning methods where work is done without the aid of abrasives.
(b) Grinding, polishing, and buffing operations —(1) Definitions applicable to this paragraph —(i) Abrasive cutting-off wheels. Organic-bonded wheels, the thickness of which is not more than one forty-eighth of their diameter for those up to, and including, 20 inches in diameter, and not more than one-sixtieth of their diameter for those larger than 20 inches in diameter, used for a multitude of operations variously known as cutting, cutting off, grooving, slotting, coping, and jointing, and the like. The wheels may be "solid" consisting of organic-bonded abrasive material throughout, "steel centered" consisting of a steel disc with a rim of organic-bonded material moulded around the periphery, or of the "inserted tooth" type consisting of a steel disc with organic-bonded abrasive teeth or inserts mechanically secured around the periphery.
(ii) Belts. All power-driven, flexible, coated bands used for grinding, polishing, or buffing purposes.
(iii) Branch pipe. The part of an exhaust system piping that is connected directly to the hood or enclosure.
(iv) Cradle. A movable fixture, upon which the part to be ground or polished is placed.
(v) Disc wheels. All power-driven rotatable discs faced with abrasive materials, artificial or natural, and used for grinding or polishing on the side of the assembled disc.
(vi) Entry loss. The loss in static pressure caused by air flowing into a duct or hood. It is usually expressed in inches of water gauge.
(vii) Exhaust system. A system consisting of branch pipes connected to hoods or enclosures, one or more header pipes, an exhaust fan, means for separating solid contaminants from the air flowing in the system, and a discharge stack to outside.
