§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
( e ) A safety shutoff valve shall require manual operation for reopening after it has closed, or the electric circuit shall be so arranged that it will require a manual operation for reopening the safety shutoff valve.
( f ) Manual reset-type safety shutoff valves shall be so arranged that they cannot be locked in an open position by external means.
( g ) Where blowers are used for supplying the air for combustion the safety shutoff valve shall be interlocked so that it will close in case of air failure.
( h ) Where gas or electric ignition is used, the safety shutoff valve shall close in case of ignition failure. On burners equipped with combustion safeguards, the valve shall close in case of burner flame failure.
(vi) One main, manually operated, fuel shutoff valve shall be provided on each oven, and shall be located ahead of all other valves in the system.
(vii) All individual gas or oil burners with a heating capacity over 150,000 B.t.u. per hour shall be protected by a safeguard which is actuated by the flame and which will react to flame failure in a time interval not to exceed 2 seconds. All safeguards, once having shut down a gas or oil burner, shall require manual resetting and starting of the burner or burners.
(viii) Any space in an oven (except direct fired ovens) which could be filled with an explosive mixture shall be protected by explosion vents. Explosion vents shall be made of minimum weight consistent with adequate insulation.
( a ) Explosion doors which have a substantial weight shall be attached by chains or similar means to prevent flying parts from injuring the personnel in case of an explosion.
( b ) Where explosion vents are so located that flying parts or gases might endanger the personnel working on or near the oven, internal or external protecting means shall be provided in the form of heavily constructed shields or deflectors made from noncombustible material.
( c ) Specifically exempted from the provisions of paragraph paragraph (l)(8)(viii) of this section are heating systems on ovens in which the fuel is admitted only to enclosed spaces which shall have been tested to prove that their construction will resist repeated explosions without deformation are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (l)(8)(viii) ( a ) and ( b ) of this section.
(ix)-(x) [Reserved]
