§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(ii)(A) Each generator shall be provided with a vent pipe.
(B) The escape or relief pipe shall be rigidly installed without traps and so that any condensation will drain back to the generator.
(C) The escape or relief pipe shall be carried full size to a suitable point outside the building. It shall terminate in a hood or bend located at least 12 feet (3.7 m) above the ground, preferably above the roof, and as far away as practicable from windows or other openings into buildings and as far away as practicable from sources of ignition such as flues or chimneys and tracks used by locomotives. Generating chamber relief pipes shall not be inter-connected but shall be separately led to the outside air. The hood or bend shall be so constructed that it will not be obstructed by rain, snow, ice, insects, or birds. The outlet shall be at least 3 feet (0.9 m) from combustible construction.
(iii)(A) Gas holders shall be constructed on the gasometer principle, the bell being suitably guided. The gas bell shall move freely without tendency to bind and shall have a clearance of at least 2 inches (5 cm) from the shell.
(B) The gas holder may be located in the generator room, in a separate room or out of doors. In order to prevent collapse of the gas bell or infiltration of air due to a vacuum caused by the compressor or booster pump or cooling of the gas, a compressor or booster cutoff shall be provided at a point 12 inches (0.3 m) or more above the landing point of the bell. When the gas holder is located indoors, the room shall be ventilated in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section and heated and lighted in accordance with paragraphs (f)(6)(iii) and (f)(6)(iv) of this section.
(C) When the gas holder is not located within a heated building, gas holder seals shall be protected against freezing.
(D) Means shall be provided to stop the generator-feeding mechanism before the gas holder reaches the upper limit of its travel.
(E) When the gas holder is connected to only one generator, the gas capacity of the holder shall be not less than one-third of the hourly rating of the generator.
(F) If acetylene is used from the gas holder without increase in pressure at some points but with increase in pressure by a compressor or booster pump at other points, approved piping protective devices shall be installed in each supply line. The low-pressure protective device shall be located between the gas holder and the shop piping, and the medium-pressure protective device shall be located between the compressor or booster pump and the shop piping (see Figure Q-4). Approved protective equipment (designated P F ) is used to prevent: Backflow of oxygen into the fuel-gas supply system; passage of a flashback into the fuel-gas supply system; and excessive back pressure of oxygen in the fuel-gas supply system. The three functions of the protective equipment may be combined in one device or may be provided by separate devices.
EC27OC91.085
(iv)(A) The compressor or booster system shall be of an approved type.
(B) Wiring and electric equipment in compressor or booster pump rooms or enclosures shall conform to the provisions of subpart S of this part for Class I, Division 2 locations.
(C) Compressors and booster pump equipment shall be located in well-ventilated areas away from open flames, electrical or mechanical sparks, or other ignition sources.
(D) Compressor or booster pumps shall be provided with pressure relief valves which will relieve pressure exceeding 15 psig (103 kPa gauge pressure) to a safe outdoor location as provided in paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section, or by returning the gas to the inlet side or to the gas supply source.
(E) Compressor or booster pump discharge outlets shall be provided with approved protective equipment. (See paragraph (e) of this section.)
(5) Portable acetylene generators. (i)(A) All portable generators shall be of a type approved for portable use.
(B) Portable generators shall not be used within 10 feet (3 m) of combustible material other than the floor.
(C) Portable generators shall not be used in rooms of total volume less than 35 times the total gas-generating capacity per charge of all generators in the room. Generators shall not be used in rooms having a ceiling height of less than 10 feet (3 m). (To obtain the gas-generating capacity in cubic feet per charge, multiply the pounds of carbide per charge by 4.5.)
(D) Portable generators shall be protected against freezing. The use of salt or other corrosive chemical to prevent freezing is prohibited.
(ii)(A) Portable generators shall be cleaned and recharged and the air mixture blown off outside buildings.
(B) When charged with carbide, portable generators shall not be moved by crane or derrick.
(C) When not in use, portable generators shall not be stored in rooms in which open flames are used unless the generators contain no carbide and have been thoroughly purged of acetylene. Storage rooms shall be well ventilated.
(D) When portable acetylene generators are to be transported and operated on vehicles, they shall be securely anchored to the vehicles. If transported by truck, the motor shall be turned off during charging, cleaning, and generating periods.
(E) Portable generators shall be located at a safe distance from the welding position so that they will not be exposed to sparks, slag, or misdirection of the torch flame or overheating from hot materials or processes.
(6) Outside generator houses and inside generator rooms for stationary acetylene generators. (i)(A) No opening in any outside generator house shall be located within 5 feet (1.5 m) of any opening in another building.
(B) Walls, floors, and roofs of outside generator houses shall be of noncombustible construction.
(C) When a part of the generator house is to be used for the storage or manifolding of oxygen cylinders, the space to be so occupied shall be separated from the generator or carbide storage section by partition walls continuous from floor to roof or ceiling, of the type of construction stated in paragraph (f)(6)(i)(H) of this section. Such separation walls shall be without openings and shall be joined to the floor, other walls and ceiling or roof in a manner to effect a permanent gas-tight joint.
(D) Exit doors shall be located so as to be readily accessible in case of emergency.
(E) Explosion venting for outside generator houses and inside generator rooms shall be provided in exterior walls or roofs. The venting areas shall be equal to not less than 1 square foot (0.09 m 2 ) per 50 cubic feet (1.4 m 3 ) of room volume and may consist of any one or any combination of the following: Walls of light, noncombustible material preferably single-thickness, single-strength glass; lightly fastened hatch covers; lightly fastened swinging doors in exterior walls opening outward; lightly fastened walls or roof designed to relieve at a maximum pressure of 25 pounds per square foot (0.001 MPa).
(F) The installation of acetylene generators within buildings shall be restricted to buildings not exceeding one story in height; provided, however, that this will not be construed as prohibiting such installations on the roof or top floor of a building exceeding such height.
(G) Generators installed inside buildings shall be enclosed in a separate room.
(H) The walls, partitions, floors, and ceilings of inside generator rooms shall be of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating of at least 1 hour. The walls or partitions shall be continuous from floor to ceiling and shall be securely anchored. At least one wall of the room shall be an exterior wall.
(I) Openings from an inside generator room to other parts of the building shall be protected by a swinging type, self-closing fire door for a Class B opening and having a rating of at least 1 hour. Windows in partitions shall be wired glass and approved metal frames with fixed sash. Installation shall be in accordance with the Standard for the Installation of Fire Doors and Windows, NFPA 80-1970, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(ii) Inside generator rooms or outside generator houses shall be well ventilated with vents located at floor and ceiling levels.
(iii) Heating shall be by steam, hot water, enclosed electrically heated elements or other indirect means. Heating by flames or fires shall be prohibited in outside generator houses or inside generator rooms, or in any enclosure communicating with them.
(iv)(A) Generator houses or rooms shall have natural light during daylight hours. Where artificial lighting is necessary it shall be restricted to electric lamps installed in a fixed position. Unless specifically approved for use in atmospheres containing acetylene, such lamps shall be provided with enclosures of glass or other noncombustible material so designed and constructed as to prevent gas vapors from reaching the lamp or socket and to resist breakage. Rigid conduit with threaded connections shall be used.
(B) Lamps installed outside of wired-glass panels set in gas-tight frames in the exterior walls or roof of the generator house or room are acceptable.
(v) Electric switches, telephones, and all other electrical apparatus which may cause a spark, unless specifically approved for use inside acetylene generator rooms, shall be located outside the generator house or in a room or space separated from the generator room by a gas-tight partition, except that where the generator system is designed so that no carbide fill opening or other part of the generator is open to the generator house or room during the operation of the generator, and so that residue is carried in closed piping from the residue discharge valve to a point outside the generator house or room, electrical equipment in the generator house or room shall conform to the provisions of subpart S of this part for Class I, Division 2 locations.
(7) Maintenance and operation. (i) Unauthorized persons shall not be permitted in outside generator houses or inside generator rooms.
(A) Operating instructions shall be posted in a conspicuous place near the generator or kept in a suitable place available for ready reference.
(B) When recharging generators the order of operations specified in the instructions supplied by the manufacturer shall be followed.
(C) In the case of batch-type generators, when the charge of carbide is exhausted and before additional carbide is added, the generating chamber shall always be flushed out with water, renewing the water supply in accordance with the instruction card furnished by the manufacturer.
(D) The water-carbide residue mixture drained from the generator shall not be discharged into sewer pipes or stored in areas near open flames. Clear water from residue settling pits may be discharged into sewer pipes.
(ii) The carbide added each time the generator is recharged shall be sufficient to refill the space provided for carbide without ramming the charge. Steel or other ferrous tools shall not be used in distributing the charge.
(iii) Generator water chambers shall be kept filled to proper level at all times except while draining during the recharging operation.
(iv) Whenever repairs are to be made or the generator is to be charged or carbide is to be removed, the water chamber shall be filled to the proper level.
(v) Previous to making repairs involving welding, soldering, or other hot work or other operations which produce a source of ignition, the carbide charge and feed mechanism shall be completely removed. All acetylene shall be expelled by completely flooding the generator shell with water and the generator shall be disconnected from the piping system. The generator shall be kept filled with water, if possible, or positioned to hold as much water as possible.
(vi) Hot repairs shall not be made in a room where there are other generators unless all the generators and piping have been purged of acetylene.
(g) Calcium carbide storage —(1) Packaging. (i) Calcium carbide shall be contained in metal packages of sufficient strength to prevent rupture. The packages shall be provided with a screw top or equivalent. These packages shall be constructed water- and air-tight. Solder shall not be used in such a manner that the package would fail if exposed to fire.
(ii) Packages containing calcium carbide shall be conspicuously marked "Calcium Carbide—Dangerous If Not Kept Dry" or with equivalent warning.
(iii) Caution: Metal tools, even the so-called spark resistant type may cause ignition of an acetylene and air mixture when opening carbide containers.
(iv) Sprinkler systems shall not be installed in carbide storage rooms.
(2) Storage indoors. (i) Calcium carbide in quantities not to exceed 600 pounds (272.2 kg) may be stored indoors in dry, waterproof, and well-ventilated locations.
(A) Calcium carbide not exceeding 600 pounds (272.2 kg) may be stored indoors in the same room with fuel-gas cylinders.
(B) Packages of calcium carbide, except for one of each size, shall be kept sealed. The seals shall not be broken when there is carbide in excess of 1 pound (0.5 kg) in any other unsealed package of the same size of carbide in the room.
(ii) Calcium carbide exceeding 600 pounds (272.2 kg) but not exceeding 5,000 pounds (2,268 kg) shall be stored:
(A) In accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section;
(B) In an inside generator room or outside generator house; or
(C) In a separate room in a one-story building which may contain other occupancies, but without cellar or basement beneath the carbide storage section. Such rooms shall be constructed in accordance with paragraphs (f)(6)(i)(H) and (f)(6)(i)(I) of this section and ventilated in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section. These rooms shall be used for no other purpose.
(iii) Calcium carbide in excess of 5,000 pounds (2,268 kg) shall be stored in one-story buildings without cellar or basement and used for no other purpose, or in outside generator houses. If the storage building is of noncombustible construction, it may adjoin other one-story buildings if separated therefrom by unpierced firewalls; if it is detached less than 10 feet (3 m) from such building or buildings, there shall be no opening in any of the mutually exposing sides of such buildings within 10 feet (3 m). If the storage building is of combustible construction, it shall be at least 20 feet (6.1 m) from any other one- or two-story building, and at least 30 feet (9.1 m) from any other building exceeding two stories.
(3) Storage outdoors. (i) Calcium carbide in unopened metal containers may be stored outdoors.
(ii) Carbide containers to be stored outdoors shall be examined to make sure that they are in good condition. Periodic reexaminations shall be made for rusting or other damage to a container that might affect its water or air tightness.
(iii) The bottom tier of each row shall be placed on wooden planking or equivalent, so that the containers will not come in contact with the ground or ground water.
(iv) Containers of carbide which have been in storage the longest shall be used first.