§ 1910.307 Hazardous (classified) locations.
§ 1910.307 Hazardous (classified) locations.
(a) Scope —(1) Applicability. This section covers the requirements for electric equipment and wiring in locations that are classified depending on the properties of the flammable vapors, liquids or gases, or combustible dusts or fibers that may be present therein and the likelihood that a flammable or combustible concentration or quantity is present. Hazardous (classified) locations may be found in occupancies such as, but not limited to, the following: aircraft hangars, gasoline dispensing and service stations, bulk storage plants for gasoline or other volatile flammable liquids, paint-finishing process plants, health care facilities, agricultural or other facilities where excessive combustible dusts may be present, marinas, boat yards, and petroleum and chemical processing plants. Each room, section or area shall be considered individually in determining its classification.
(2) Classifications. (i) These hazardous (classified) locations are assigned the following designations:
(A) Class I, Division 1
(B) Class I, Division 2
(C) Class I, Zone 0
(D) Class I, Zone 1
(E) Class I, Zone 2
(F) Class II, Division 1
(G) Class II, Division 2
(H) Class III, Division 1
(I) Class III, Division 2
(ii) For definitions of these locations, see § 1910.399.
(3) Other sections of this subpart. All applicable requirements in this subpart apply to hazardous (classified) locations unless modified by provisions of this section.
(4) Division and zone classification. In Class I locations, an installation must be classified as using the division classification system meeting paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section or using the zone classification system meeting paragraph (g) of this section. In Class II and Class III locations, an installation must be classified using the division classification system meeting paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(b) Documentation. All areas designated as hazardous (classified) locations under the Class and Zone system and areas designated under the Class and Division system established after August 13, 2007 shall be properly documented. This documentation shall be available to those authorized to design, install, inspect, maintain, or operate electric equipment at the location.
