§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(f) Conductors for general wiring —(1) Insulation. All conductors used for general wiring shall be insulated unless otherwise permitted in this subpart.
(2) Type. The conductor insulation shall be of a type that is approved for the voltage, operating temperature, and location of use.
(3) Distinguishable. Insulated conductors shall be distinguishable by appropriate color or other suitable means as being grounded conductors, ungrounded conductors, or equipment grounding conductors.
(g) Flexible cords and cables —(1) Use of flexible cords and cables. (i) Flexible cords and cables shall be approved for conditions of use and location.
(ii) Flexible cords and cables may be used only for:
(A) Pendants;
(B) Wiring of fixtures;
(C) Connection of portable lamps or appliances;
(D) Portable and mobile signs;
(E) Elevator cables;
(F) Wiring of cranes and hoists;
(G) Connection of stationary equipment to facilitate their frequent interchange;
(H) Prevention of the transmission of noise or vibration;
(I) Appliances where the fastening means and mechanical connections are designed to permit removal for maintenance and repair;
(J) Data processing cables approved as a part of the data processing system;
(K) Connection of moving parts; and
(L) Temporary wiring as permitted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(iii) If used as permitted in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii)(C), (g)(1)(ii)(G), or (g)(1)(ii)(I) of this section, the flexible cord shall be equipped with an attachment plug and shall be energized from an approved receptacle outlet.
(iv) Unless specifically permitted otherwise in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, flexible cords and cables may not be used:
(A) As a substitute for the fixed wiring of a structure;
(B) Where run through holes in walls, ceilings, or floors;
(C) Where run through doorways, windows, or similar openings;
(D) Where attached to building surfaces;
(E) Where concealed behind building walls, ceilings, or floors; or
