§ 1910.119 Process safety management of highly hazardous chemicals.
(c) Employee participation. (1) Employers shall develop a written plan of action regarding the implementation of the employee participation required by this paragraph.
(2) Employers shall consult with employees and their representatives on the conduct and development of process hazards analyses and on the development of the other elements of process safety management in this standard.
(3) Employers shall provide to employees and their representatives access to process hazard analyses and to all other information required to be developed under this standard.
(d) Process safety information. In accordance with the schedule set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the employer shall complete a compilation of written process safety information before conducting any process hazard analysis required by the standard. The compilation of written process safety information is to enable the employer and the employees involved in operating the process to identify and understand the hazards posed by those processes involving highly hazardous chemicals. This process safety information shall include information pertaining to the hazards of the highly hazardous chemicals used or produced by the process, information pertaining to the technology of the process, and information pertaining to the equipment in the process.
(1) Information pertaining to the hazards of the highly hazardous chemicals in the process. This information shall consist of at least the following:
(i) Toxicity information;
(ii) Permissible exposure limits;
(iii) Physical data;
(iv) Reactivity data:
(v) Corrosivity data;
(vi) Thermal and chemical stability data; and
(vii) Hazardous effects of inadvertent mixing of different materials that could foreseeably occur.
Note: Note: Safety data sheets meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) may be used to comply with this requirement to the extent they contain the information required by this subparagraph.
(2) Information pertaining to the technology of the process. (i) Information concerning the technology of the process shall include at least the following:
(A) A block flow diagram or simplified process flow diagram (see appendix B to this section);
(B) Process chemistry;
(C) Maximum intended inventory;
(D) Safe upper and lower limits for such items as temperatures, pressures, flows or compositions; and,
(E) An evaluation of the consequences of deviations, including those affecting the safety and health of employees.
