§ 1910.252 General requirements.
(ii) Welding cable. Welders shall place welding cable and other equipment so that it is clear of passageways, ladders, and stairways.
(2) Eye protection —(i) Selection. (A) Helmets or hand shields shall be used during all arc welding or arc cutting operations, excluding submerged arc welding. Helpers or attendants shall be provided with proper eye protection.
(B) Goggles or other suitable eye protection shall be used during all gas welding or oxygen cutting operations. Spectacles without side shields, with suitable filter lenses are permitted for use during gas welding operations on light work, for torch brazing or for inspection.
(C) All operators and attendants of resistance welding or resistance brazing equipment shall use transparent face shields or goggles, depending on the particular job, to protect their faces or eyes, as required.
(D) Eye protection in the form of suitable goggles shall be provided where needed for brazing operations not covered in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii) Specifications for protectors. (A) Helmets and hand shields shall be made of a material which is an insulator for heat and electricity. Helmets, shields and goggles shall be not readily flammable and shall be capable of withstanding sterilization.
(B) Helmets and hand shields shall be arranged to protect the face, neck and ears from direct radiant energy from the arc.
(C) Helmets shall be provided with filter plates and cover plates designed for easy removal.
(D) All parts shall be constructed of a material which will not readily corrode or discolor the skin.
(E) Goggles shall be ventilated to prevent fogging of the lenses as much as practicable.
(F) All glass for lenses shall be tempered, substantially free from striae, air bubbles, waves and other flaws. Except when a lens is ground to provide proper optical correction for defective vision, the front and rear surfaces of lenses and windows shall be smooth and parallel.
(G) Lenses shall bear some permanent distinctive marking by which the source and shade may be readily identified.
