§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(9) Boilers. (i) Before internal furnace or ash hopper repair work is started, overhead areas shall be inspected for possible falling objects. If the hazard of falling objects exists, overhead protection such as planking or nets shall be provided.
(ii) When opening an operating boiler door, employees shall stand clear of the opening of the door to avoid the heat blast and gases which may escape from the boiler.
(10) Turbine generators. (i) Smoking and other ignition sources are prohibited near hydrogen or hydrogen sealing systems, and signs warning of the danger of explosion and fire shall be posted.
(ii) Excessive hydrogen makeup or abnormal loss of pressure shall be considered as an emergency and shall be corrected immediately.
(iii) A sufficient quantity of inert gas shall be available to purge the hydrogen from the largest generator.
(11) Coal and ash handling. (i) Only designated persons may operate railroad equipment.
(ii) Before a locomotive or locomotive crane is moved, a warning shall be given to employees in the area.
(iii) Employees engaged in switching or dumping cars may not use their feet to line up drawheads.
(iv) Drawheads and knuckles may not be shifted while locomotives or cars are in motion.
(v) When a railroad car is stopped for unloading, the car shall be secured from displacement that could endanger employees.
(vi) An emergency means of stopping dump operations shall be provided at railcar dumps.
(vii) The employer shall ensure that employees who work in coal- or ash-handling conveyor areas are trained and knowledgeable in conveyor operation and in the requirements of paragraphs (v)(11)(viii) through (v)(11)(xii) of this section.
(viii) Employees may not ride a coal- or ash-handling conveyor belt at any time. Employees may not cross over the conveyor belt, except at walkways, unless the conveyor's energy source has been deenergized and has been locked out or tagged in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(ix) A conveyor that could cause injury when started may not be started until personnel in the area are alerted by a signal or by a designated person that the conveyor is about to start.
