§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(ii) Policies or procedures are changed; or
(iii) There is an indication that the employee has not retained the necessary understanding or skill.
(3) The employer must ensure that the training is overseen or conducted by a person knowledgeable in the covered subject matter as it relates to the employee's job duties.
(4) The employer must ensure that the training provides an opportunity for interactive questions and answers with a person knowledgeable in the covered subject matter as it relates to the employee's job duties.
(o) Anti-Retaliation. (1) The employer must inform each employee that:
(i) Employees have a right to the protections required by this section; and
(ii) Employers are prohibited from discharging or in any manner discriminating against any employee for exercising their right to the protections required by this section, or for engaging in actions that are required by this section.
(2) The employer must not discharge or in any manner discriminate against any employee for exercising their right to the protections required by this section, or for engaging in actions that are required by this section.
Note: Note to paragraph ( o ): In addition, section 11(c) of the OSH Act also prohibits the employer from discriminating against an employee for exercising rights under, or as a result of actions that are required by, this section. That provision of the Act also protects the employee who files a safety and health complaint, or otherwise exercises any rights afforded by the OSH Act.
(p) Requirements implemented at no cost to employees. The implementation of all requirements of this section, with the exception of any employee self-monitoring conducted under paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, must be at no cost to employees.
(q) Recordkeeping —(1) Small employer exclusion. Employers with 10 or fewer employees on the effective date of this section are not required to comply with paragraph (q)(2) or (q)(3) of this section.
(2) Required records. Employers with more than 10 employees on the effective date of this section must:
(i) Retain all versions of the COVID-19 plan implemented to comply with this section while this section remains in effect.
(ii) Establish and maintain a COVID-19 log to record each instance identified by the employer in which an employee is COVID-19 positive, regardless of whether the instance is connected to exposure to COVID-19 at work.
