§ 1910.1003 13 Carcinogens (4-Nitrobiphenyl, etc.).
(b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section: Absolute filter is one capable of retaining 99.97 percent of a mono disperse aerosol of 0.3 µm particles. Authorized employee means an employee whose duties require him to be in the regulated area and who has been specifically assigned by the employer. Clean change room means a room where employees put on clean clothing and/or protective equipment in an environment free of the 13 carcinogens addressed by this section. The clean change room shall be contiguous to and have an entry from a shower room, when the shower room facilities are otherwise required in this section. Closed system means an operation involving a carcinogen addressed by this section where containment prevents the release of the material into regulated areas, non-regulated areas, or the external environment. Decontamination means the inactivation of a carcinogen addressed by this section or its safe disposal. Director means the Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or any person directed by him or the Secretary of Health and Human Services to act for the Director. Disposal means the safe removal of the carcinogens addressed by this section from the work environment. Emergency means an unforeseen circumstance or set of circumstances resulting in the release of a carcinogen addressed by this section that may result in exposure to or contact with the material. External environment means any environment external to regulated and nonregulated areas. Isolated system means a fully enclosed structure other than the vessel of containment of a carcinogen addressed by this section that is impervious to the passage of the material and would prevent the entry of the carcinogen addressed by this section into regulated areas, nonregulated areas, or the external environment, should leakage or spillage from the vessel of containment occur. Laboratory-type hood is a device enclosed on the three sides and the top and bottom, designed and maintained so as to draw air inward at an average linear face velocity of 150 feet per minute with a minimum of 125 feet per minute; designed, constructed, and maintained in such a way that an operation involving a carcinogen addressed by this section within the hood does not require the insertion of any portion of any employee's body other than his hands and arms. Nonregulated area means any area under the control of the employer where entry and exit is neither restricted nor controlled. Open-vessel system means an operation involving a