§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(iii) If the load must remain suspended for any considerable length of time, a dog, or pawl and ratchet, or other equivalent means, rather than the brake alone, shall be used to hold the load.
(5) Use of winch heads. (i) Ropes shall not be handled on a winch head without the knowledge of the operator.
(ii) While a winch head is being used, the operator shall be within convenient reach of the power unit control lever.
(6) Securing boom. Dogs, pawls, or other positive holding mechanism on the hoist shall be engaged. When not in use, the derrick boom shall:
(i) Be laid down;
(ii) Be secured to a stationary member, as nearly under the head as possible, by attachment of a sling to the load block; or
(iii) Be hoisted to a vertical position and secured to the mast.
(j) Other requirements —(1) Guards. (i) Exposed moving parts, such as gears, ropes, setscrews, projecting keys, chains, chain sprockets, and reciprocating components, which constitute a hazard under normal operating conditions shall be guarded.
(ii) Guards shall be securely fastened.
(iii) Each guard shall be capable of supporting without permanent distortion, the weight of a 200-pound person unless the guard is located where it is impossible for a person to step on it.
(2) Hooks. (i) Hooks shall meet the manufacturer's recommendations and shall not be overloaded.
(ii) Safety latch type hooks shall be used wherever possible.
(3) Fire extinguishers. (i) A carbon dioxide, dry chemical, or equivalent fire extinguisher shall be kept in the immediate vicinity of the derrick.
(ii) Operating and maintenance personnel shall be familiar with the use and care of the fire extinguishers provided.
(4) Refueling. (i) Refueling with portable containers shall be done with approved safety type containers equipped with automatic closing cap and flame arrester. Refer to § 1910.155(c)(3) for definition of Approved.
(ii) Machines shall not be refueled with the engine running.
(5) Operations near overhead lines. For operations near overhead electric lines, see § 1910.333(c)(3).
