§ 1910.1051 1,3-Butadiene.
(iii) When an employee whose job requires the use of a respirator cannot use a negative-pressure respirator, the employer must provide the employee with a respirator that has less breathing resistance than the negative-pressure respirator, such as a powered air- purifying respirator or supplied-air respirator, when the employee is able to use it and if it provides the employee adequate protection.
(i) Protective clothing and equipment. Where appropriate to prevent eye contact and limit dermal exposure to BD, the employer shall provide protective clothing and equipment at no cost to the employee and shall ensure its use. Eye and face protection shall meet the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.133.
(j) Emergency situations. Written plan. A written plan for emergency situations shall be developed, or an existing plan shall be modified, to contain the applicable elements specified in 29 CFR 1910.38 and 29 CFR 1910.39, "Emergency action plans" and "Fire prevention plans," respectively, and in 29 CFR 1910.120, "Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response," for each workplace where there is the possibility of an emergency.
(k) Medical screening and surveillance —(1) Employees covered. The employer shall institute a medical screening and surveillance program as specified in this paragraph for:
(i) Each employee with exposure to BD at concentrations at or above the action level on 30 or more days or for employees who have or may have exposure to BD at or above the PELs on 10 or more days a year;
(ii) Employers (including successor owners) shall continue to provide medical screening and surveillance for employees, even after transfer to a non-BD exposed job and regardless of when the employee is transferred, whose work histories suggest exposure to BD:
(A) At or above the PELs on 30 or more days a year for 10 or more years;
(B) At or above the action level on 60 or more days a year for 10 or more years; or
(C) Above 10 ppm on 30 or more days in any past year; and
(iii) Each employee exposed to BD following an emergency situation.
(2) Program administration. (i) The employer shall ensure that the health questionnaire, physical examination and medical procedures are provided without cost to the employee, without loss of pay, and at a reasonable time and place.
