§ 1910.1053 Respirable crystalline silica.
(A) The health hazards associated with exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(B) Specific tasks in the workplace that could result in exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(C) Specific measures the employer has implemented to protect employees from exposure to respirable crystalline silica, including engineering controls, work practices, and respirators to be used;
(D) The contents of this section; and
(E) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (i) of this section.
(ii) The employer shall make a copy of this section readily available without cost to each employee covered by this section.
(k) Recordkeeping —(1) Air monitoring data. (i) The employer shall make and maintain an accurate record of all exposure measurements taken to assess employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica, as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The date of measurement for each sample taken;
(B) The task monitored;
(C) Sampling and analytical methods used;
(D) Number, duration, and results of samples taken;
(E) Identity of the laboratory that performed the analysis;
(F) Type of personal protective equipment, such as respirators, worn by the employees monitored; and
(G) Name and job classification of all employees represented by the monitoring, indicating which employees were actually monitored.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that exposure records are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2) Objective data. (i) The employer shall make and maintain an accurate record of all objective data relied upon to comply with the requirements of this section.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The crystalline silica-containing material in question;
(B) The source of the objective data;
(C) The testing protocol and results of testing;
(D) A description of the process, task, or activity on which the objective data were based; and
(E) Other data relevant to the process, task, activity, material, or exposures on which the objective data were based.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that objective data are maintained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
