§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( b ) One double or two single back-pressure check valves. ( c ) A positive shutoff valve, in conjunction with either: ( 1 ) An internal back-pressure valve, or ( 2 ) An internal excess flow valve. (iii) All openings in a container shall be equipped with approved automatic excess flow valves except in the following: Filling connections as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section; safety relief connections, liquid-level gaging devices as provided in paragraphs (b)(7)(iv), (19)(iii), and (19)(viii) of this section; pressure gage connections as provided in paragraph (b)(7)(v) of this section, as provided in paragraphs (d) (iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section. (iv) An excess flow valve is not required in the withdrawal service line providing the following are complied with: ( a ) Such systems' total water capacity does not exceed 2,000 U.S. gallons. ( b ) The discharge from the service outlet is controlled by a suitable manually operated shutoff valve which is: ( 1 ) Threaded directly into the service outlet of the container; or ( 2 ) Is an integral part of a substantial fitting threaded into or on the service outlet of the container; or ( 3 ) Threaded directly into a substantial fitting threaded into or on the service outlet of the container. ( c ) The shutoff valve is equipped with an attached handwheel or the equivalent. ( d ) The controlling orifice between the contents of the container and the outlet of the shutoff valve does not exceed five-sixteenths inch in diameter for vapor withdrawal systems and one- eighth inch in diameter for liquid withdrawal systems. ( e ) An approved pressure-reducing regulator is directly attached to the outlet of the shutoff valve and is rigidly supported, or that an approved pressure-reducing regulator is attached to the outlet of the shutoff valve by means of a suitable flexible connection, provided the regulator is adequately supported and properly protected on or at the tank. (v) All inlet and outlet connections except safety relief valves, liquid level gaging devices and pressure gages on containers of 2,000 gallons water capacity, or more, and on any container used to supply fuel directly to an internal combustion engine, shall be labeled to designate whether they communicate with vapor or liquid space. Labels may be on