§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(ii) Where footwalks are located in no case shall less than 48 inches of headroom be provided.
(2) Construction of footwalks. (i) Footwalks shall be of rigid construction and designed to sustain a distributed load of at least 50 pounds per square foot.
(ii) Footwalks shall have a walking surface of antislip type.
Note: Note: Wood will meet this requirement.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) The inner edge shall extend at least to the line of the outside edge of the lower cover plate or flange of the girder.
(3) Toeboards and handrails for footwalks. Toeboards and handrails must comply with subpart D of this part.
(4) Ladders and stairways. (i) Gantry cranes shall be provided with ladders or stairways extending from the ground to the footwalk or cab platform.
(ii) Stairways shall be equipped with rigid and substantial metal handrails. Walking surfaces shall be of an antislip type.
(iii) Ladders shall be permanently and securely fastened in place and constructed in compliance with subpart D of this part.
(e) Stops, bumpers, rail sweeps, and guards —(1) Trolley stops. (i) Stops shall be provided at the limits of travel of the trolley.
(ii) Stops shall be fastened to resist forces applied when contacted.
(iii) A stop engaging the tread of the wheel shall be of a height at least equal to the radius of the wheel.
(2) Bridge bumpers —(i) A crane shall be provided with bumpers or other automatic means providing equivalent effect, unless the crane travels at a slow rate of speed and has a faster deceleration rate due to the use of sleeve bearings, or is not operated near the ends of bridge and trolley travel, or is restricted to a limited distance by the nature of the crane operation and there is no hazard of striking any object in this limited distance, or is used in similar operating conditions. The bumpers shall be capable of stopping the crane (not including the lifted load) at an average rate of deceleration not to exceed 3 ft/s/s when traveling in either direction at 20 percent of the rated load speed.
