§ 1910.268 Telecommunications.
(3) Gloves and blankets shall be marked to indicate compliance with the retest schedule, and shall be marked with the date the next test is due. Gloves found to be defective in the field or by the tests set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall be destroyed by cutting them open from the finger to the gauntlet.
(g) Personal climbing equipment —(1) General. A positioning system or a personal fall arrest system shall be provided and the employer shall ensure their use when work is performed at positions more than 4 feet (1.2 m) above the ground, on poles, and on towers, except as provided in paragraphs (n)(7) and (8) of this section. These systems shall meet the applicable requirements in subpart I of this part. The employer shall ensure that all climbing equipment is inspected before each day's use to determine that it is in safe working condition.
(2) Pole climbers. (i) Pole climbers may not be used if the gaffs are less than 1 1/4 inches in length as measured on the underside of the gaff. The gaffs of pole climbers shall be covered with safety caps when not being used for their intended use.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that pole climbers are inspected by a competent person for the following conditions: Fractured or cracked gaffs or leg irons, loose or dull gaffs, broken straps or buckles. If any of these conditions exist, the defect shall be corrected before the climbers are used.
(iii) Pole climbers shall be inspected as required in this paragraph (g)(3) before each day's use and a gaff cut-out test performed at least weekly when in use.
(iv) Pole climbers may not be worn when:
(A) Working in trees (specifically designed tree climbers shall be used for tree climbing),
(B) Working on ladders,
(C) Working in an aerial lift,
(D) Driving a vehicle, nor
(E) Walking on rocky, hard, frozen, brushy or hilly terrain.
(h) Ladders. Ladders, step bolts, and manhole steps shall meet the applicable requirements in subpart D of this part.
