§ 1910.1450 Occupational exposure to hazardous chemicals in laboratories.
(C) The measures employees can take to protect themselves from these hazards, including specific procedures the employer has implemented to protect employees from exposure to hazardous chemicals, such as appropriate work practices, emergency procedures, and personal protective equipment to be used.
(ii) The employee shall be trained on the applicable details of the employer's written Chemical Hygiene Plan.
(g) Medical consultation and medical examinations. (1) The employer shall provide all employees who work with hazardous chemicals an opportunity to receive medical attention, including any follow-up examinations which the examining physician determines to be necessary, under the following circumstances:
(i) Whenever an employee develops signs or symptoms associated with a hazardous chemical to which the employee may have been exposed in the laboratory, the employee shall be provided an opportunity to receive an appropriate medical examination.
(ii) Where exposure monitoring reveals an exposure level routinely above the action level (or in the absence of an action level, the PEL) for an OSHA regulated substance for which there are exposure monitoring and medical surveillance requirements, medical surveillance shall be established for the affected employee as prescribed by the particular standard.
(iii) Whenever an event takes place in the work area such as a spill, leak, explosion or other occurrence resulting in the likelihood of a hazardous exposure, the affected employee shall be provided an opportunity for a medical consultation. Such consultation shall be for the purpose of determining the need for a medical examination.
(2) All medical examinations and consultations shall be performed by or under the direct supervision of a licensed physician and shall be provided without cost to the employee, without loss of pay and at a reasonable time and place.
(3) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the physician:
(i) The identity of the hazardous chemical(s) to which the employee may have been exposed;
(ii) A description of the conditions under which the exposure occurred including quantitative exposure data, if available; and
(iii) A description of the signs and symptoms of exposure that the employee is experiencing, if any.
(4) Physician's written opinion. (i) For examination or consultation required under this standard, the employer shall obtain a written opinion from the examining physician which shall include the following:
(A) Any recommendation for further medical follow-up;
(B) The results of the medical examination and any associated tests;
