§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(3) Log decks —(i) Access. Safe access to the head rig shall be provided.
(ii) Stops. Log decks shall be provided with adequate stops, chains, or other safeguards to prevent logs from rolling down the deck onto the carriage or its runway.
(iii) Barricade. A barricade or other positive stop of sufficient strength to stop any log shall be erected between the sawyer's stand and the log deck.
(iv) Loose chains. Loose chains from overhead canting devices or other equipment shall not be allowed to hang over the log deck in such manner as to strike employees.
(v) Swing saws. Swing saws on log decks shall be equipped with a barricade and stops for protection of employees who may be on the opposite side of the log haul chute.
(vi) Drag saws. Where reciprocating log cutoff saws (drag saws) are provided, they shall not project into walkway or aisle.
(vii) Circular cutoff saws. Circular log bucking or cutoff saws shall be so located and guarded as to allow safe entrance to and exit from the building.
(viii) Entrance doorway. Where the cutoff saw partially blocks the entrance from the log haul runway, the entrance shall be guarded.
(4) Mechanical barkers —(i) Rotary barkers. Rotary barking devices shall be so guarded as to protect employees from flying chips, bark, or other extraneous material.
(ii) Elevating ramp. If an elevating ramp or gate is used, it shall be provided with a safety chain, hook, or other means of suspension while employees are underneath.
(iii) Area around barkers. The hazardous area around ring barkers and their conveyors shall be fenced off or posted as a prohibited area for unauthorized persons.
(iv) Enclosing hydraulic barkers. Hydraulic barkers shall be enclosed with strong baffles at the inlet and outlet. The operator shall be protected by adequate safety glass or equivalent.
(v) Holddown rolls. Holddown rolls shall be installed at the infeed and outfeed sections of mechanical ring barkers to control the movement of logs.
(e) Log breakdown and related machinery and facilities —(1) Log carriages and carriage runways —(i) Bumpers. A substantial stop or bumper with adequate shock-absorptive qualities shall be installed at each end of the carriage runway.
