§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(ii) Only the loading or unloading machine operator and other personnel the employer demonstrates are essential shall be in the loading or unloading work area during this operation.
(iii) No transport vehicle operator shall remain in the cab during loading and unloading if the logs are carried or moved over the truck cab, unless the employer demonstrates that it is necessary for the operator to do so. Where the transport vehicle operator remains in the cab, the employer shall provide operator protection, such as but not limited to, reinforcement of the cab.
(iv) Each log shall be placed on a transport vehicle in an orderly manner and tightly secured.
(v) The load shall be positioned to prevent slippage or loss during handling and transport.
(vi) Each stake and chock which is used to trip loads shall be so constructed that the tripping mechanism is activated on the side opposite the release of the load.
(vii) Each tie down shall be left in place over the peak log to secure all logs until the unloading lines or other protection the employer demonstrates is equivalent has been put in place. A stake of sufficient strength to withstand the forces of shifting or moving logs, shall be considered equivalent protection provided that the logs are not loaded higher than the stake.
(viii) Each tie down shall be released only from the side on which the unloading machine operates, except as follows:
(A) When the tie down is released by a remote control device; and
(B) When the employee making the release is protected by racks, stanchions or other protection the employer demonstrates is capable of withstanding the force of the logs.
(7) Transport. The transport vehicle operator shall assure that each tie down is tight before transporting the load. While enroute, the operator shall check and tighten the tie downs whenever there is reason to believe that the tie downs have loosened or the load has shifted.
(8) Storage. Each deck shall be constructed and located so it is stable and provides each employee with enough room to safely move and work in the area.
(i) Training. (1) The employer shall provide training for each employee, including supervisors, at no cost to the employee.
(2) Frequency. Training shall be provided as follows:
(i) As soon as possible but not later than the effective date of this section for initial training for each current and new employee;
