§ 1910.184 Slings.
(7) Safe operating temperatures. Metal mesh slings which are not impregnated with elastomers may be used in a temperature range from minus 20 degrees F to plus 550 degrees F without decreasing the working load limit. Metal mesh slings impregnated with polyvinyl chloride or neoprene may be used only in a temperature range from zero degrees to plus 200 degrees F. For operations outside these temperature ranges or for metal mesh slings impregnated with other materials, the sling manufacturer's recommendations shall be followed.
(8) Repairs. (i) Metal mesh slings which are repaired shall not be used unless repaired by a metal mesh sling manufacturer or an equivalent entity.
(ii) Once repaired, each sling shall be permanently marked or tagged, or a written record maintained, to indicate the date and nature of the repairs and the person or organization that performed the repairs. Records of repairs shall be made available for examination.
(9) Removal from service. Metal mesh slings shall be immediately removed from service if any of the following conditions are present:
(i) A broken weld or broken brazed joint along the sling edge.
(ii) Reduction in wire diameter of 25 per cent due to abrasion or 15 per cent due to corrosion.
(iii) Lack of flexibility due to distortion of the fabric.
(iv) Distortion of the female handle so that the depth of the slot is increased more than 10 per cent.
(v) Distortion of either handle so that the width of the eye is decreased more than 10 per cent.
(vi) A 15 percent reduction of the original cross sectional area of metal at any point around the handle eye.
(vii) Distortion of either handle out of its plane.
(h) Natural and synthetic fiber-rope slings —(1) Sling use. Employers must use natural and synthetic fiber-rope slings that have permanently affixed and legible identification markings stating the rated capacity for the type(s) of hitch(es) used and the angle upon which it is based, type of fiber material, and the number of legs if more than one.
