§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( a ) Containers in use shall mean connected for use.
( b ) Systems utilizing containers having a water capacity greater than 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) shall be equipped with excess flow valves. Such excess flow valves shall be either integral with the container valves or in the connections to the container valve outlets. In either case, an excess flow valve shall be installed in such a manner that any undue strain beyond the excess flow valve will not cause breakage between the container and the excess flow valve. The installation of excess flow valves shall take into account the type of valve protection provided.
( c ) Regulators, if used, shall be either directly connected to the container valves or to manifolds connected to the container values. The regulator shall be suitable for use with LP-Gas. Manifolds and fittings connecting containers to pressure regulator inlets shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. service pressure.
( d ) Valves on containers having a water capacity greater than 50 pounds (nominal 20 pounds LP-Gas capacity) shall be protected while in use.
( e ) Containers shall be marked in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section and paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
( f ) Pipe or tubing shall conform to paragraph (b)(8) of this section except that aluminum pipe or tubing shall not be used.
( g )( 1 ) Hose shall be designed for a working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g. Hose and hose connections shall have their correctness as to design, construction and performance determined by listing by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. The hose length may exceed the length specified in paragraph (b)(9)(vii)( b ) of this section, but shall be as short as practicable. Refer to § 1910.7 for definition of nationally recognized testing laboratory.
( 2 ) Hose shall be long enough to permit compliance with spacing provisions of this subparagraph without kinking or straining or causing hose to be so close to a burner as to be damaged by heat.
( h ) Portable heaters, including salamanders, shall be equipped with an approved automatic device to shut off the flow of gas to the main burner, and pilot if used, in the event of flame extinguishment. Such heaters having inputs above 50,000 B.t.u. manufactured on or after May 17, 1967, and such heaters having inputs above 100,000 B.t.u. manufactured before May 17, 1967, shall be equipped with either.
( 1 ) A pilot which must be lighted and proved before the main burner can be turned on; or
( 2 ) An electric ignition system.
The provisions of this paragraph ( h ) do not apply to tar kettle burners, torches, melting pots, nor do they apply to portable heaters under 7,500 B.t.u.h. input when used with containers having a maximum water capacity of 2 1/2 pounds. Container valves, connectors, regulators, manifolds, piping, and tubing shall not be used as structural supports for heaters.
( i ) Containers, regulating equipment, manifolds, pipe, tubing, and hose shall be located so as to minimize exposure to abnormally high temperatures (such as may result from exposure to convection or radiation from heating equipment or installation in confined spaces), physical damage, or tampering by unauthorized persons.
( j ) Heat producing equipment shall be located and used so as to minimize the possibility of ignition of combustibles.
( k ) Containers having a water capacity greater than 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) connected for use, shall stand on a firm and substantially level surface and, when necessary, shall be secured in an upright position.
( l ) Containers, including the valve protective devices, shall be installed so as to minimize the probability of impingement of discharge of safety relief devices upon containers.
(ii) Containers having a maximum water capacity of 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) are permitted to be used inside of buildings as part of approved self-contained hand torch assemblies or similar appliances.
(iii) Containers having a maximum water capacity of 12 pounds (nominal 5 pounds LP-Gas capacity) are permitted to be used temporarily inside of buildings for public exhibition or demonstration purposes, including use for classroom demonstrations.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Containers are permitted to be used in buildings or structures under construction or undergoing major renovation when such buildings or structures are not occupied by the public, as follows:
( a ) The maximum water capacity of individual containers shall be 245 pounds (nominal 100 pounds LP-Gas capacity).
( b ) For temporary heating such as curing concrete, drying plaster and similar applications, heaters (other than integral heater-container units) shall be located at least 6 feet from any LP-Gas container. This shall not prohibit the use of heaters specifically designed for attachment to the container or to a supporting standard, provided they are designed and installed so as to prevent direct or radiant heat application from the heater onto the container. Blower and radiant type heaters shall not be directed toward any LP-Gas container within 20 feet.
( c ) If two or more heater-container units, of either the integral or nonintegral type, are located in an unpartitioned area on the same floor, the container or containers of each unit shall be separated from the container or containers of any other unit by at least 20 feet.
( d ) When heaters are connected to containers for use in an unpartitioned area on the same floor, the total water capacity of containers manifolded together for connection to a heater or heaters shall not be greater than 735 pounds (nominal 300 pounds LP-Gas capacity). Such manifolds shall be separated by at least 20 feet.
( e ) On floors on which heaters are not connected for use, containers are permitted to be manifolded together for connection to a heater or heaters on another floor, Provided:
( 1 ) The total water capacity of containers connected to any one manifold is not greater than 2,450 pounds (nominal 1,000 pounds LP-Gas capacity) and;
( 2 ) Where more than one manifold having a total water capacity greater than 735 pounds (nominal 300 pounds LP-Gas capacity) are located in the same unpartitioned area, they shall be separated by at least 50 feet.
( f ) Storage of containers awaiting use shall be in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(vi) Containers are permitted to be used in industrial occupancies for processing, research, or experimental purposes as follows:
( a ) The maximum water capacity of individual containers shall be 245 pounds (nominal 100 pounds LP-Gas capacity).
( b ) Containers connected to a manifold shall have a total water capacity not greater than 735 pounds (nominal 300 pounds LP-Gas capacity) and not more than one such manifold may be located in the same room unless separated at least 20 feet from a similar unit.
( c ) The amount of LP-Gas in containers for research and experimental use shall be limited to the smallest practical quantity.
(vii)( a ) Containers are permitted to be used in industrial occupancies with essentially noncombustible contents where portable equipment for space heating is essential and where a permanent heating installation is not practical, as follows:
( b ) Containers and heaters shall comply with and be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section.
(viii) Containers are permitted to be used in buildings for temporary emergency heating purposes, if necessary to prevent damage to the buildings or contents, when the permanent heating system is temporarily out of service, as follows:
( a ) Containers and heaters shall comply with and be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section.
( b ) The temporary heating equipment shall not be left unattended.
(ix) Containers are permitted to be used temporarily in buildings for training purposes related in installation and use of LP-Gas systems, as follows:
( a ) The maximum water capacity of individual containers shall be 245 pounds (nominal 100 pounds LP-Gas capacity), but the maximum quantity of LP-Gas that may be placed in each container shall be 20 pounds.
( b ) If more than one such container is located in the same room, the containers shall be separated by at least 20 feet.
(6) Container valves and accessories. (i) Valves in the assembly of multiple container systems shall be arranged so that replacement of containers can be made without shutting off the flow of gas in the system.
Note: Note: This provision is not to be construed as requiring an automatic changeover device.
(ii) Regulators and low-pressure relief devices shall be rigidly attached to the cylinder valves, cylinders, supporting standards, the building walls or otherwise rigidly secured and shall be so installed or protected that the elements (sleet, snow, or ice) will not affect their operation.
(iii) Valves and connections to the containers shall be protected while in transit, in storage, and while being moved into final utilization, as follows:
( a ) By setting into the recess of the container to prevent the possibility of their being struck if the container is dropped upon a flat surface, or
( b ) By ventilated cap or collar, fastened to the container capable of withstanding a blow from any direction equivalent to that of a 30-pound weight dropped 4 feet. Construction must be such that a blow will not be transmitted to the valve or other connection.
(iv) When containers are not connected to the system, the outlet valves shall be kept tightly closed or plugged, even though containers are considered empty.
(v) Containers having a water capacity in excess of 50 pounds (approximately 21 pounds LP-Gas capacity), recharged at the installation, shall be provided with excess flow or backflow check valves to prevent the discharge of container contents in case of failure of the filling or equalizing connection.
(7) Safety devices. (i) Containers shall be provided with safety devices as required by DOT regulations.
(ii) A final stage regulator of an LP-Gas system (excluding any appliance regulator) shall be equipped on the low-pressure side with a relief valve which is set to start to discharge within the limits specified in Table H-30.

Table H-30
----------
Regulator delivery pressure Relief valve start-to-discharge pressure setting (percent of regulator delivery pressure) Minimum Maximum
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 p.s.i.g. or less 200 300
Above 1 p.s.i.g. but not over 3 p.s.i.g 140 200
Above 3 p.s.i.g 125 200

(iii) When a regulator or pressure relief valve is used inside a building for other than purposes specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) ( a )-( g ) of this section, the relief valve and the space above the regulator and relief valve diaphragms shall be vented to the outside air with the discharge outlet located not less than 3 feet horizontally away from any building opening which is below such discharge. These provisions do not apply to individual appliance regulators when protection is otherwise provided nor to paragraph (c)(5) of this section and paragraph (b)(10)(xiii) of this section. In buildings devoted exclusively to gas distribution purposes, the space above the diaphragm need not be vented to the outside.
(8) Reinstallation of containers. Containers shall not be reinstalled unless they are requalified in accordance with DOT regulations.
(9) Permissible product. A product shall not be placed in a container marked with a service pressure less than four-fifths of the maximum vapor pressure of product at 130 degrees F.
(d) Systems utilizing containers other than DOT containers —(1) Application. This paragraph applies specifically to systems utilizing storage containers other than those constructed in accordance with DOT specifications. Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Design pressure and classification of storage containers. Storage containers shall be designed and classified in accordance with Table H-31.

Table H-31
----------
Container type For gases with vapor press. Not to exceed lb. per sq. in. gage at 100 degrees F. (37.8 degrees C.) Minimum design pressure of container, lb. per sq. in. gage 1949 and earlier editions of ASME Code (Par. U-68, U-69) 1949 edition of ASME Code (Par. U-200, U-201); 1950, 1952, 1956, 1959, 1962, 1965, and 1968 (Division 1) editions of ASME Code; All editions of API-ASME Code 3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 80 1 80 1 80 1 100
100 100 100 125
125 125 125 156
150 150 150 187
175 175 175 219
2 200 215 200 250

(3) Container valves and accessories, filler pipes, and discharge pipes. (i) The filling pipe inlet terminal shall not be located inside a building. For containers with a water capacity of 125 gallons or more, such terminals shall be located not less than 10 feet from any building (see paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section), and preferably not less than 5 feet from any driveway, and shall be located in a protective housing built for the purpose.
(ii) The filling connection shall be fitted with one of the following:
( a ) Combination back-pressure check valve and excess flow valve.
( b ) One double or two single back-pressure check valves.
( c ) A positive shutoff valve, in conjunction with either:
( 1 ) An internal back-pressure valve, or
( 2 ) An internal excess flow valve.
(iii) All openings in a container shall be equipped with approved automatic excess flow valves except in the following: Filling connections as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section; safety relief connections, liquid-level gaging devices as provided in paragraphs (b)(7)(iv), (19)(iii), and (19)(viii) of this section; pressure gage connections as provided in paragraph (b)(7)(v) of this section, as provided in paragraphs (d) (iv), (vi), and (vii) of this section.
(iv) An excess flow valve is not required in the withdrawal service line providing the following are complied with:
( a ) Such systems' total water capacity does not exceed 2,000 U.S. gallons.
( b ) The discharge from the service outlet is controlled by a suitable manually operated shutoff valve which is:
( 1 ) Threaded directly into the service outlet of the container; or
( 2 ) Is an integral part of a substantial fitting threaded into or on the service outlet of the container; or
( 3 ) Threaded directly into a substantial fitting threaded into or on the service outlet of the container.
( c ) The shutoff valve is equipped with an attached handwheel or the equivalent.
( d ) The controlling orifice between the contents of the container and the outlet of the shutoff valve does not exceed five-sixteenths inch in diameter for vapor withdrawal systems and one- eighth inch in diameter for liquid withdrawal systems.
( e ) An approved pressure-reducing regulator is directly attached to the outlet of the shutoff valve and is rigidly supported, or that an approved pressure-reducing regulator is attached to the outlet of the shutoff valve by means of a suitable flexible connection, provided the regulator is adequately supported and properly protected on or at the tank.
(v) All inlet and outlet connections except safety relief valves, liquid level gaging devices and pressure gages on containers of 2,000 gallons water capacity, or more, and on any container used to supply fuel directly to an internal combustion engine, shall be labeled to designate whether they communicate with vapor or liquid space. Labels may be on valves.
(vi) In lieu of an excess flow valve openings may be fitted with a quick-closing internal valve which, except during operating periods shall remain closed. The internal mechanism for such valves may be provided with a secondary control which shall be equipped with a fusible plug (not over 220 degrees F. melting point) which will cause the internal valve to close automatically in case of fire.
(vii) Not more than two plugged openings shall be permitted on a container of 2,000 gallons or less water capacity.
(viii) Containers of 125 gallons water capacity or more manufactured after July 1, 1961, shall be provided with an approved device for liquid evacuation, the size of which shall be three-fourths inch National Pipe Thread minimum. A plugged opening will not satisfy this requirement.
(4) Safety devices. (i) All safety devices shall comply with the following:
( a ) All container safety relief devices shall be located on the containers and shall have direct communication with the vapor of space of the container.
( b ) In industrial and gas manufacturing plants, discharge pipe from safety relief valves on pipe lines within a building shall discharge vertically upward and shall be piped to a point outside a building.
( c ) Safety relief device discharge terminals shall be so located as to provide protection against physical damage and such discharge pipes shall be fitted with loose raincaps. Return bends and restrictive pipefittings shall not be permitted.
( d ) If desired, discharge lines from two or more safety relief devices located on the same unit, or similar lines from two or more different units, may be run into a common discharge header, provided that the cross-sectional area of such header be at least equal to the sum of the cross-sectional area of the individual discharge lines, and that the setting of safety relief valves are the same.
( e ) Each storage container of over 2,000 gallons water capacity shall be provided with a suitable pressure gage.
( f ) A final stage regulator of an LP-Gas system (excluding any appliance regulator) shall be equipped on the low-pressure side with a relief valve which is set to start to discharge within the limits specified in Table H-30.
( g ) When a regulator or pressure relief valve is installed inside a building, the relief valve and the space above the regulator and relief valve diaphragms shall be vented to the outside air with the discharge outlet located not less than 3 feet horizontally away from any opening into the building which is below such discharge. (These provisions do not apply to individual appliance regulators when protection is otherwise provided. In buildings devoted exclusively to gas distribution purposes, the space above the diaphragm need not be vented to the outside.)
(ii) Safety devices for aboveground containers shall be provided as follows:
( a ) Containers of 1,200 gallons water capacity or less which may contain liquid fuel when installed above ground shall have the rate of discharge required by paragraph (b)(10)(ii) of this section provided by a spring-loaded relief valve or valves. In addition to the required spring-loaded relief valve(s), suitable fuse plug(s) may be used provided the total discharge area of the fuse plug(s) for each container does not exceed 0.25 square inch.
( b ) The fusible metal of the fuse plugs shall have a yield temperature of 208 degrees F. minimum and 220 degrees F. maximum. Relief valves and fuse plugs shall have direct communication with the vapor space of the container.
( c ) On a container having a water capacity greater than 125 gallons, but not over 2,000 gallons, the discharge from the safety relief valves shall be vented away from the container vertically upwards and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container; loose-fitting rain caps shall be used. Suitable provision shall be made for draining condensate which may accumulate in the relief valve or its discharge pipe.
( d ) On containers of 125 gallons water capacity or less, the discharge from safety relief devices shall be located not less than 5 feet horizontally away from any opening into the building below the level of such discharge.
( e ) On a container having a water capacity greater than 2,000 gallons, the discharge from the safety relief valves shall be vented away from the container vertically upwards to a point at least 7 feet above the container, and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container; loose-fitting rain caps shall be used. Suitable provision shall be made so that any liquid or condensate that may accumulate inside of the safety relief valve or its discharge pipe will not render the valve inoperative. If a drain is used, a means shall be provided to protect the container, adjacent containers, piping, or equipment against impingement of flame resulting from ignition of product escaping from the drain.
(iii) On all containers which are installed underground and which contain no liquid fuel until buried and covered, the rate of discharge of the spring-loaded relief valve installed thereon may be reduced to a minimum of 30 percent of the rate of discharge specified in paragraph (b)(10)(ii) of this section. Containers so protected shall not be uncovered after installation until the liquid fuel has been removed therefrom. Containers which may contain liquid fuel before being installed under ground and before being completely covered with earth are to be considered aboveground containers when determining the rate of discharge requirement of the relief valves.
(iv) On underground containers of more than 2,000 gallons water capacity, the discharge from safety relief devices shall be piped vertically and directly upward to a point at least 7 feet above the ground.
Where there is a probability of the manhole or housing becoming flooded, the discharge from regulator vent lines shall be above the highest probable water level. All manholes or housings shall be provided with ventilated louvers or their equivalent, the area of such openings equaling or exceeding the combined discharge areas of the safety relief valves and other vent lines which discharge their content into the manhole housing.
(v) Safety devices for vaporizers shall be provided as follows:
( a ) Vaporizers of less than 1 quart total capacity, heated by the ground or the surrounding air, need not be equipped with safety relief valves provided that adequate tests certified by any of the authorities referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, demonstrate that the assembly is safe without safety relief valves.
( b ) No vaporizer shall be equipped with fusible plugs.
( c ) In industrial and gas manufacturing plants, safety relief valves on vaporizers within a building shall be piped to a point outside the building and be discharged upward.
(5) Reinstallation of containers. Containers may be reinstalled if they do not show any evidence of harmful external corrosion or other damage. Where containers are reinstalled underground, the corrosion resistant coating shall be put in good condition (see paragraph (c)(7)(vi) of this section). Where containers are reinstalled above ground, the safety devices and gaging devices shall comply with paragraph (c)(4) of this section and paragraph (b)(19) of this section respectively for aboveground containers.
(6) Capacity of containers. A storage container shall not exceed 90,000 gallons water capacity.
(7) Installation of storage containers. (i) Containers installed above ground, except as provided in paragraph (c)(7)(vii) of this section, shall be provided with substantial masonry or noncombustible structural supports on firm masonry foundation.
(ii) Aboveground containers shall be supported as follows:
( a ) Horizontal containers shall be mounted on saddles in such a manner as to permit expansion and contraction. Structural metal supports may be employed when they are protected against fire in an approved manner. Suitable means of preventing corrosion shall be provided on that portion of the container in contact with the foundations or saddles.
( b ) Containers of 2,000 gallons water capacity or less may be installed with nonfireproofed ferrous metal supports if mounted on concrete pads or footings, and if the distance from the outside bottom of the container shell to the concrete pad, footing, or the ground does not exceed 24 inches.
(iii) Any container may be installed with nonfireproofed ferrous metal supports if mounted on concrete pads or footings, and if the distance from the outside bottom of the container to the ground does not exceed 5 feet, provided the container is in an isolated location.
(iv) Containers may be partially buried providing the following requirements are met:
( a ) The portion of the container below the surface and for a vertical distance not less than 3 inches above the surface of the ground is protected to resist corrosion, and the container is protected against settling and corrosion as required for fully buried containers.
( b ) Spacing requirements shall be as specified for underground tanks in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.
( c ) Relief valve capacity shall be as required for aboveground containers.
( d ) Container is located so as not to be subject to vehicular damage, or is adequately protected against such damage.
( e ) Filling densities shall be as required for above-ground containers.
(v) Containers buried underground shall be placed so that the top of the container is not less than 6 inches below grade. Where an underground container might be subject to abrasive action or physical damage due to vehicular traffic or other causes, then it shall be:
( a ) Placed not less than 2 feet below grade, or
( b ) Otherwise protected against such physical damage.
It will not be necessary to cover the portion of the container to which manhole and other connections are affixed; however, where necessary, protection shall be provided against vehicular damage. When necessary to prevent floating, containers shall be securely anchored or weighted.
(vi)( a ) Containers shall be given a protective coating before being placed under ground. This coating shall be equivalent to hot-dip galvanizing or to two coatings of red lead followed by a heavy coating of coal tar or asphalt. In lowering the container into place, care shall be exercised to prevent damage to the coating. Any damage to the coating shall be repaired before backfilling.
( b ) Containers shall be set on a firm foundation (firm earth may be used) and surrounded with earth or sand firmly tamped in place.
(vii) Containers with foundations attached (portable or semiportable containers with suitable steel "runners" or "skids" and popularly known in the industry as "skid tanks") shall be designed, installed, and used in accordance with these rules subject to the following provisions:
( a ) If they are to be used at a given general location for a temporary period not to exceed 6 months they need not have fire-resisting foundations or saddles but shall have adequate ferrous metal supports.
( b ) They shall not be located with the outside bottom of the container shell more than 5 feet above the surface of the ground unless fire-resisting supports are provided.
( c ) The bottom of the skids shall not be less than 2 inches or more than 12 inches below the outside bottom of the container shell.
( d ) Flanges, nozzles, valves, fittings, and the like, having communication with the interior of the container, shall be protected against physical damage.
( e ) When not permanently located on fire-resisting foundations, piping connections shall be sufficiently flexible to minimize the possibility of breakage or leakage of connections if the container settles, moves, or is otherwise displaced.
( f ) Skids, or lugs for attachment of skids, shall be secured to the container in accordance with the code or rules under which the container is designed and built (with a minimum factor of safety of four) to withstand loading in any direction equal to four times the weight of the container and attachments when filled to the maximum permissible loaded weight.
(viii) Field welding where necessary shall be made only on saddle plates or brackets which were applied by the manufacturer of the tank.
(ix) For aboveground containers, secure anchorage or adequate pier height shall be provided against possible container flotation wherever sufficiently high floodwater might occur.
(x) When permanently installed containers are interconnected, provision shall be made to compensate for expansion, contraction, vibration, and settling of containers, and interconnecting piping. Where flexible connections are used, they shall be of an approved type and shall be designed for a bursting pressure of not less than five times the vapor pressure of the product at 100 degrees F. The use of nonmetallic hose is prohibited for permanently interconnecting such containers.
(xi) Container assemblies listed for interchangeable installation above ground or under ground shall conform to the requirements for aboveground installations with respect to safety relief capacity and filling density. For installation above ground all other requirements for aboveground installations shall apply. For installation under ground all other requirements for underground installations shall apply.
(8) Protection of container accessories. (i) Valves, regulating, gaging, and other container accessory equipment shall be protected against tampering and physical damage. Such accessories shall also be so protected during the transit of containers intended for installation underground.
(ii) On underground or combination aboveground-underground containers, the service valve handwheel, the terminal for connecting the hose, and the opening through which there can be a flow from safety relief valves shall be at least 4 inches above the container and this opening shall be located in the dome or housing. Underground systems shall be so installed that all the above openings, including the regulator vent, are located above the normal maximum water table.
(iii) All connections to underground containers shall be located within a substantial dome, housing, or manhole and with access thereto protected by a substantial cover.
(9) Drips for condensed gas. Where vaporized gas on the low-pressure side of the system may condense to a liquid at normal operating temperatures and pressures, suitable means shall be provided for revaporization of the condensate.
(10) Damage from vehicles. When damage to LP-Gas systems from vehicular traffic is a possibility, precautions against such damage shall be taken.
(11) Drains. No drains or blowoff lines shall be directed into or in proximity to sewer systems used for other purposes.
(12) General provisions applicable to systems in industrial plants (of 2,000 gallons water capacity and more) and to bulk filling plants. (i) When standard watch service is provided, it shall be extended to the LP-Gas installation and personnel properly trained.
(ii) If loading and unloading are normally done during other than daylight hours, adequate lights shall be provided to illuminate storage containers, control valves, and other equipment.
(iii) Suitable roadways or means of access for extinguishing equipment such as wheeled extinguishers or fire department apparatus shall be provided.
(iv) To minimize trespassing or tampering, the area which includes container appurtenances, pumping equipment, loading and unloading facilities, and cylinder-filling facilities shall be enclosed with at least a 6-foot-high industrial type fence unless otherwise adequately protected. There shall be at least two means of emergency access.
(13) Container-charging plants. (i) The container-charging room shall be located not less than:
( a ) Ten feet from bulk storage containers.
( b ) [Reserved]
(ii) Tank truck filling station outlets shall be located not less than:
( a ) [Reserved]
( b ) Ten feet from pumps and compressors if housed in one or more separate buildings.
(iii) The pumps or compressors may be located in the container-charging room or building, in a separate building, or outside of buildings. When housed in a separate building, such building (a small noncombustible weather cover is not to be construed as a building) shall be located not less than:
( a ) Ten feet from bulk storage tanks.
( b ) [Reserved]
( c ) Twenty-five feet from sources of ignition.
(iv) When a part of the container-charging building is to be used for a boiler room or where open flames or similar sources of ignition exist or are employed, the space to be so occupied shall be separated from container charging room by a partition wall or walls of fire-resistant construction continuous from floor to roof or ceiling. Such separation walls shall be without openings and shall be joined to the floor, other walls, and ceiling or roof in a manner to effect a permanent gas-tight joint.
(v) Electrical equipment and installations shall conform with paragraphs (b) (17) and (18) of this section.
(14) Fire protection. (i) Each bulk plant shall be provided with at least one approved portable fire extinguisher having a minimum rating of 12-B, C.
(ii) In industrial installations involving containers of 150,000 gallons aggregate water capacity or more, provision shall be made for an adequate supply of water at the container site for fire protection in the container area, unless other adequate means for fire control are provided. Water hydrants shall be readily accessible and so spaced as to provide water protection for all containers. Sufficient lengths of firehose shall be provided at each hydrant location on a hose cart, or other means provided to facilitate easy movement of the hose in the container area. It is desirable to equip the outlet of each hose line with a combination fog nozzle. A shelter shall be provided to protect the hose and its conveyor from the weather.
(15) [Reserved]
(16) Lighting. Electrical equipment and installations shall conform to paragraphs (b) (17) and (18) of this section.
(17) Vaporizers for internal combustion engines. The provisions of paragraph (e)(8) of this section shall apply.
(18) Gas regulating and mixing equipment for internal combustion engines. The provisions of paragraph (e)(9) of this section shall apply.
(e) Liquefied petroleum gas as a motor fuel —(1) Application. (i) This paragraph applies to internal combustion engines, fuel containers, and pertinent equipment for the use of liquefied petroleum gases as a motor fuel on easily movable, readily portable units including self-propelled vehicles.
(ii) Fuel containers and pertinent equipment for internal combustion engines using liquefied petroleum gas where installation is of the stationary type are covered by paragraph (d) of this section. This paragraph does not apply to containers for transportation of liquefied petroleum gases nor to marine fuel use. All requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply to this paragraph, unless otherwise noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) General. (i) Fuel may be used from the cargo tank of a truck while in transit, but not from cargo tanks on trailers or semitrailers. The use of fuel from the cargo tanks to operate stationary engines is permitted providing wheels are securely blocked.
(ii) Passenger-carrying vehicles shall not be fueled while passengers are on board.
(iii) Industrial trucks (including lift trucks) equipped with permanently mounted fuel containers shall be charged outdoors. Charging equipment shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (h) of this section.
(iv) LP-Gas fueled industrial trucks shall comply with the Standard for Type Designations, Areas of Use, Maintenance and Operation of Powered Industrial Trucks, NFPA 505-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(v) Engines on vehicles shall be shut down while fueling if the fueling operation involves venting to the atmosphere.
(3) Design pressure and classification of fuel containers. (i) Except as covered in paragraphs (e)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this section, containers shall be in accordance with Table H-32.
(ii) Fuel containers for use in industrial trucks (including lift trucks) shall be either DOT containers authorized for LP-Gas service having a minimum service pressure of 240 p.s.i.g. or minimum Container Type 250. Under 1950 and later ASME codes, this means a 312.5-p.s.i.g. design pressure container.

Table H-32
----------
Container type For gases with vapor press. Not to exceed lb. per sq. in. gage at 100 degrees F. (37.8 degrees C.) Minimum design pressure of container, lb. per sq. in. gage 1949 and earlier editions of ASME Code (Par. U-68, U-69) 1949 edition of ASME Code (Par. U-200, U-201); 1950, 1952, 1956, 1959, 1962, 1965, and 1968 (Division 1) editions of ASME Code; All editions of API-ASME Code 2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 200 215Z 200 250

(iii) Containers manufactured and maintained under DOT specifications and regulations may be used as fuel containers. When so used they shall conform to all requirements of this paragraph.
(iv) All container inlets and outlets except safety relief valves and gaging devices shall be labeled to designate whether they communicate with vapor or liquid space. Labels may be on valves.
