§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(v) Power generation. This paragraph provides additional requirements and related work practices for power generating plants. (1) Interlocks and other safety devices. (i) Interlocks and other safety devices shall be maintained in a safe, operable condition. (ii) No interlock or other safety device may be modified to defeat its function, except for test, repair, or adjustment of the device. (2) Changing brushes. Before exciter or generator brushes are changed while the generator is in service, the exciter or generator field shall be checked to determine whether a ground condition exists. The brushes may not be changed while the generator is energized if a ground condition exists. (3) Access and working space. The employer shall provide and maintain sufficient access and working space about electric equipment to permit ready and safe operation and maintenance of such equipment by employees. Note: Note to paragraph ( v )(3) of this section: American National Standard National Electrical Safety Code, ANSI/IEEE C2-2012 contains guidelines for the dimensions of access and working space about electric equipment in substations. Installations meeting the ANSI provisions comply with paragraph (v)(3) of this section. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration will determine whether an installation that does not conform to this ANSI standard complies with paragraph (v)(3) of this section based on the following criteria: (1) Whether the installation conforms to the edition of ANSI C2 that was in effect when the installation was made; (2) Whether the configuration of the installation enables employees to maintain the minimum approach distances, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, while the employees are working on exposed, energized parts, and; (3) Whether the precautions taken when employees perform work on the installation provide protection equivalent to the protection provided by access and working space meeting ANSI/IEEE C2-2012. (4) Guarding of rooms and other spaces containing electric supply equipment. (i) Rooms and other spaces in which electric supply lines or equipment are installed shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (v)(4)(ii) through (v)(4)(v) of this section under the following conditions: (A) If exposed live parts operating at 50 to 150 volts to ground are within 2.4 meters (8 feet) of the ground or other working surface inside the room or