§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(d) Switchboards and panelboards —(1) Switchboards with exposed live parts. Switchboards that have any exposed live parts shall be located in permanently dry locations and shall be accessible only to qualified persons. (2) Panelboard enclosures. Panelboards shall be mounted in cabinets, cutout boxes, or enclosures designed for the purpose and shall be dead front. However, panelboards other than the dead front externally-operable type are permitted where accessible only to qualified persons. (3) Knife switches mounted in switchboards or panelboards. Exposed blades of knife switches mounted in switchboards or panelboards shall be dead when open. (e) Enclosures for damp or wet locations —(1) Cabinets, cutout boxes, fittings, boxes, and panelboard enclosures. Cabinets, cutout boxes, fittings, boxes, and panelboard enclosures in damp or wet locations shall be installed so as to prevent moisture or water from entering and accumulating within the enclosures and shall be mounted so there is at least 6.35-mm (0.25-in.) airspace between the enclosure and the wall or other supporting surface. However, nonmetallic enclosures may be installed without the airspace on a concrete, masonry, tile, or similar surface. The enclosures shall be weatherproof in wet locations. (2) Switches, circuit breakers, and switchboards. Switches, circuit breakers, and switchboards installed in wet locations shall be enclosed in weatherproof enclosures. (f) Conductors for general wiring —(1) Insulation. All conductors used for general wiring shall be insulated unless otherwise permitted in this subpart. (2) Type. The conductor insulation shall be of a type that is approved for the voltage, operating temperature, and location of use. (3) Distinguishable. Insulated conductors shall be distinguishable by appropriate color or other suitable means as being grounded conductors, ungrounded conductors, or equipment grounding conductors. (g) Flexible cords and cables —(1) Use of flexible cords and cables. (i) Flexible cords and cables shall be approved for conditions of use and location. (ii) Flexible cords and cables may be used only for: (A) Pendants; (B) Wiring of fixtures; (C) Connection of portable lamps or appliances; (D) Portable and mobile signs; (E) Elevator cables; (F) Wiring of cranes and hoists;