§ 1910.1024 Beryllium.
(5) Licensed physician's written medical report for the employee. The employer must ensure that the employee receives a written medical report from the licensed physician within 45 days of the examination (including any follow-up BeLPT required under paragraph (k)(3)(ii)(E) of this standard) and that the PLHCP explains the results of the examination to the employee. The written medical report must contain:
(i) A statement indicating the results of the medical examination, including the licensed physician's opinion as to whether the employee has:
(A) Any detected medical condition, such as CBD or beryllium sensitization ( i.e., the employee is confirmed positive, as defined in paragraph (b) of this standard), that may place the employee at increased risk from further airborne exposure, and
(B) Any medical conditions related to airborne exposure that require further evaluation or treatment.
(ii) Any recommendations on:
(A) The employee's use of respirators, protective clothing, or equipment; or
(B) Limitations on the employee's airborne exposure to beryllium.
(iii) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD or if the licensed physician otherwise deems it appropriate, the written report must also contain a referral for an evaluation at a CBD diagnostic center.
(iv) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD the written report must also contain a recommendation for continued periodic medical surveillance.
(v) If the employee is confirmed positive or diagnosed with CBD the written report must also contain a recommendation for medical removal from airborne exposure to beryllium, as described in paragraph (l) of this standard.
(6) Licensed physician's written medical opinion for the employer. (i) The employer must obtain a written medical opinion from the licensed physician within 45 days of the medical examination (including any follow-up BeLPT required under paragraph (k)(3)(ii)(E) of this standard). The written medical opinion must contain only the following:
(A) The date of the examination;
(B) A statement that the examination has met the requirements of this standard;
(C) Any recommended limitations on the employee's use of respirators, protective clothing, or equipment; and
