§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(B) The escape or relief pipe shall be rigidly installed without traps and so that any condensation will drain back to the generator.
(C) The escape or relief pipe shall be carried full size to a suitable point outside the building. It shall terminate in a hood or bend located at least 12 feet (3.7 m) above the ground, preferably above the roof, and as far away as practicable from windows or other openings into buildings and as far away as practicable from sources of ignition such as flues or chimneys and tracks used by locomotives. Generating chamber relief pipes shall not be inter-connected but shall be separately led to the outside air. The hood or bend shall be so constructed that it will not be obstructed by rain, snow, ice, insects, or birds. The outlet shall be at least 3 feet (0.9 m) from combustible construction.
(iii)(A) Gas holders shall be constructed on the gasometer principle, the bell being suitably guided. The gas bell shall move freely without tendency to bind and shall have a clearance of at least 2 inches (5 cm) from the shell.
(B) The gas holder may be located in the generator room, in a separate room or out of doors. In order to prevent collapse of the gas bell or infiltration of air due to a vacuum caused by the compressor or booster pump or cooling of the gas, a compressor or booster cutoff shall be provided at a point 12 inches (0.3 m) or more above the landing point of the bell. When the gas holder is located indoors, the room shall be ventilated in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section and heated and lighted in accordance with paragraphs (f)(6)(iii) and (f)(6)(iv) of this section.
(C) When the gas holder is not located within a heated building, gas holder seals shall be protected against freezing.
(D) Means shall be provided to stop the generator-feeding mechanism before the gas holder reaches the upper limit of its travel.
(E) When the gas holder is connected to only one generator, the gas capacity of the holder shall be not less than one-third of the hourly rating of the generator.
