§ 1910.262 Textiles.
(i) Warpers —(1) Swiveled double-bar gates. Swiveled double-bar gates shall be installed on all warpers operating in excess of 450 yards per minute. These gates shall be so interlocked that the machine cannot be operated until the gate is in the "closed position," except for the purpose of inching or jogging.
(2) Closed position. Closed position shall mean that the top bar of the gate shall be at least 42 inches from the floor or working platform; and the lower bar shall be at least 21 inches from the floor or working platform; and the gate shall be located 15 inches from the vertical tangent to the beam head.
(j) Drawing frames, slubbers, roving parts, cotton combers, ring spinning frames, twisters. Gear housing covers on all installations of drawing frames, slubbers, roving frames, cotton combers, ring spinning frames, and twisters shall be equipped with interlocks.
(k) Gill boxes —(1) Pin guard. A guard shall be placed ahead of the feed end and shall be so designed that it will prevent the worker's fingers from being caught in the pins of the intersecting fallers.
(2) Nip guards. All nip guards shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.
(l) Heavy draw boxes, finishers, and speeders used in worsted drawing —(1) Band pulley covers. Covers for band pulleys shall be closed when the machine is in motion.
(2) Benches or working platforms. Branches or working platforms approximately 10 inches in height and 8 inches in width should be installed along the entire running length of the machine for the worker to stand on while creeling the machine. Such benches or platforms shall be covered with an abrasive or nonslip material.
(m) Sliver and ribbon lappers (cotton). Cover guard. An interlocking cover guard shall be installed over the large calender drums and the lap spool, designed to prevent the operator from coming in contact with the nip.
(n) Looms —(1) Shuttle guard. Each loom shall be equipped with a guard designed to minimize the danger of the shuttle flying out of the shed.
