§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(viii) Load limits. No vehicle shall be operated with loads exceeding its safe load capacity.
(ix) Brakes. All vehicles shall be equipped with brakes capable of holding and controlling the vehicle and capacity load upon any incline or grade over which they may be operated.
(x) [Reserved]
(xi) Carriers. ( a ) Carriers shall be so designed and constructed that the operator's field of vision shall not be unnecessarily restricted.
( b ) Carriers shall be provided with an access ladder or equivalent.
(xii) Lumber hauling trucks. ( a ) On trucks where movement of load on stopping would endanger the operator, a substantial bulkhead shall be installed behind the operator's seat. This shall extend to the top of the operator's compartment.
( b ) Stakes, stake pockets, racks, tighteners, and binders shall provide adequate means to secure the load against any movement during transit.
( c ) Where rollers are used, at least two shall be equipped with locks which shall be locked when supporting loads during transit.
(31) Traffic control and flow —(i) Hazardous crossings. Railroad tracks and other hazardous crossings shall be plainly posted.
(ii) Restricted overhead clearance. All areas of restricted side or overhead clearance shall be plainly marked.
(iii) Pickup and unloading points. Pickup and unloading points and paths for lumber packages on conveyors and transfers and other areas where accurate spotting is required, shall be plainly marked and wheel stops provided where necessary.
(iv) Aisles, passageways, and roadways. Aisles, passageways, and roadways shall be sufficiently wide to provide safe side clearance. One-way aisles may be used for two-way traffic if suitable turnouts are provided.
(d) Log handling, sorting, and storage —(1) Log unloading methods, equipment, and facilities —(i) Unloading methods. ( a ) Stakes and chocks which trip shall be constructed in such manner that the tripping mechanism that releases the stake or chocks is activated at the opposite side of the load being tripped.
( b ) Binders on logs shall not be released prior to securing with unloading lines or other unloading device.
