§ 1910.423 Post-dive procedures.
(a) General. The employer shall comply with the following requirements which are applicable after each diving operation, unless otherwise specified.
(b) Precautions. (1) After the completion of any dive, the employer shall:
(i) Check the physical condition of the diver;
(ii) Instruct the diver to report any physical problems or adverse physiological effects including symptoms of decompression sickness;
(iii) Advise the diver of the location of a decompression chamber which is ready for use; and
(iv) Alert the diver to the potential hazards of flying after diving.
(2) For any dive outside the no-decompression limits, deeper than 100 fsw or using mixed gas as a breathing mixture, the employer shall instruct the diver to remain awake and in the vicinity of the decompression chamber which is at the dive location for at least one hour after the dive (including decompression or treatment as appropriate).
(c) Recompression capability. (1) A decompression chamber capable of recompressing the diver at the surface to a minimum of 165 fsw (6 ATA) shall be available at the dive location for:
(i) Surface-supplied air diving to depths deeper than 100 fsw and shallower than 220 fsw;
(ii) Mixed gas diving shallower than 300 fsw; or
(iii) Diving outside the no-decompression limits shallower than 300 fsw.
(2) A decompression chamber capable of recompressing the diver at the surface to the maximum depth of the dive shall be available at the dive location for dives deeper than 300 fsw.
(3) The decompression chamber shall be:
(i) Dual-lock;
(ii) Multiplace; and
(iii) Located within 5 minutes of the dive location.
(4) The decompression chamber shall be equipped with:
(i) A pressure gauge for each pressurized compartment designed for human occupancy;
(ii) A built-in-breathing-system with a minimum of one mask per occupant;
(iii) A two-way voice communication system between occupants and a dive team member at the dive location;
(iv) A viewport; and
(v) Illumination capability to light the interior.
(5) Treatment tables, treatment gas appropriate to the diving mode, and sufficient gas to conduct treatment shall be available at the dive location.
(6) A dive team member shall be available at the dive location during and for at least one hour after the dive to operate the decompression chamber (when required or provided).
(d) Record of dive. (1) The following information shall be recorded and maintained for each diving operation:
(i) Names of dive team members including designated person-in-charge;
(ii) Date, time, and location;
(iii) Diving modes used;
(iv) General nature of work performed;
(v) Approximate underwater and surface conditions (visibility, water temperature and current); and
(vi) Maximum depth and bottom time for each diver.
(2) For each dive outside the no-decompression limits, deeper than 100 fsw or using mixed gas, the following additional information shall be recorded and maintained:
(i) Depth-time and breathing gas profiles;
(ii) Decompression table designation (including modification); and
(iii) Elapsed time since last pressure exposure if less than 24 hours or repetitive dive designation for each diver.
(3) For each dive in which decompression sickness is suspected or symptoms are evident, the following additional information shall be recorded and maintained:
(i) Description of decompression sickness symptoms (including depth and time of onset); and
(ii) Description and results of treatment.
(e) Decompression procedure assessment. The employer shall:
(1) Investigate and evaluate each incident of decompression sickness based on the recorded information, consideration of the past performance of decompression table used, and individual susceptibility;
(2) Take appropriate corrective action to reduce the probability of recurrence of decompression sickness; and
(3) Prepare a written evaluation of the decompression procedure assessment, including any corrective action taken, within 45 days of the incident of decompression sickness.