§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(ii) Guards. ( a ) The top and the openings in end and side frames of edgers shall be adequately guarded and gears and chains shall be fully housed. Guards may be hinged or otherwise arranged to permit oiling and the removal of saws. ( b ) All edgers shall be equipped with pressure feed rolls. ( c ) Pressure feed rolls on edgers shall be guarded against accidental contact. (iii) Antikickback devices. ( a ) Edgers shall be provided with safety fingers or other approved methods of preventing kickbacks or guarding against them. A barricade in line with the edger, if properly fenced off, may be used if safety fingers are not feasible to install. ( b ) A controlling device shall be installed and located so that the operator can stop the feed mechanism without releasing the tension of the pressure rolls. (iv) Operating speed of live rolls. Live rolls and tailing devices in back of edger shall operate at a speed not less than the speed of the edger feed rolls. (6) Planers —(i) Guards. ( a ) All cutting heads shall be guarded. ( b ) Side head hoods shall be of sufficient height to safeguard the head setscrew. ( c ) Pressure feed rolls and "pineapples" shall be guarded. ( d ) Levers or controls shall be so arranged or guarded as to reduce the possibility of accidental operation. (f) Dry kilns and facilities —(1) Kiln foundations. Dry kilns shall be constructed upon solid foundations to prevent tracks from sagging (2) Passageways. A passageway shall be provided to give adequate clearance on at least one side or in the center of end-piled kilns and on two sides of cross-piled kilns. (3) Doors —(i) Main kiln doors. ( a ) Main kiln doors shall be provided with a method of holding them open while kiln is being loaded. ( b ) Counterweights on vertical lift doors shall be boxed or otherwise guarded. ( c ) Adequate means shall be provided to firmly secure main doors, when they are disengaged from carriers and hangers, to prevent toppling. (ii) Escape doors. ( a ) If operating procedures require access to kilns, kilns shall be provided with escape doors that operate easily from the inside, swing in the direction of exit, and are located in or near the main door at the