§ 1910.134 Respiratory protection.
(vi) How to recognize medical signs and symptoms that may limit or prevent the effective use of respirators; and
(vii) The general requirements of this section.
(2) The training shall be conducted in a manner that is understandable to the employee.
(3) The employer shall provide the training prior to requiring the employee to use a respirator in the workplace.
(4) An employer who is able to demonstrate that a new employee has received training within the last 12 months that addresses the elements specified in paragraph (k)(1)(i) through (vii) is not required to repeat such training provided that, as required by paragraph (k)(1), the employee can demonstrate knowledge of those element(s). Previous training not repeated initially by the employer must be provided no later than 12 months from the date of the previous training.
(5) Retraining shall be administered annually, and when the following situations occur:
(i) Changes in the workplace or the type of respirator render previous training obsolete;
(ii) Inadequacies in the employee's knowledge or use of the respirator indicate that the employee has not retained the requisite understanding or skill; or
(iii) Any other situation arises in which retraining appears necessary to ensure safe respirator use.
(6) The basic advisory information on respirators, as presented in appendix D of this section, shall be provided by the employer in any written or oral format, to employees who wear respirators when such use is not required by this section or by the employer.
(l) Program evaluation. This section requires the employer to conduct evaluations of the workplace to ensure that the written respiratory protection program is being properly implemented, and to consult employees to ensure that they are using the respirators properly.
(1) The employer shall conduct evaluations of the workplace as necessary to ensure that the provisions of the current written program are being effectively implemented and that it continues to be effective.
(2) The employer shall regularly consult employees required to use respirators to assess the employees' views on program effectiveness and to identify any problems. Any problems that are identified during this assessment shall be corrected. Factors to be assessed include, but are not limited to:
