§ 1910.28 Duty to have fall protection and falling object protection.
(B) Implement and enforce a work rule prohibiting employees from going within 15 feet (4.6 m) of the roof edge without using fall protection in accordance with paragraphs (b)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(14) Slaughtering facility platforms. (i) The employer must protect each employee on the unprotected working side of a slaughtering facility platform that is 4 feet (1.2 m) or more above a lower level from falling by using:
(A) Guardrail systems; or
(B) Travel restraint systems.
(ii) When the employer can demonstrate the use of a guardrail or travel restraint system is not feasible, the work may be done without those systems provided:
(A) The work operation for which fall protection is infeasible is in process;
(B) Access to the platform is limited to authorized employees; and
(C) The authorized employees are trained in accordance with § 1910.30.
(15) Walking-working surfaces not otherwise addressed. Except as provided elsewhere in this section or by other subparts of this part, the employer must ensure each employee on a walking-working surface 4 feet (1.2 m) or more above a lower level is protected from falling by:
(i) Guardrail systems;
(ii) Safety net systems; or
(iii) Personal fall protection systems, such as personal fall arrest, travel restraint, or positioning systems.
(c) Protection from falling objects. When an employee is exposed to falling objects, the employer must ensure that each employee wears head protection that meets the requirements of subpart I of this part. In addition, the employer must protect employees from falling objects by implementing one or more of the following:
(1) Erecting toeboards, screens, or guardrail systems to prevent objects from falling to a lower level;
(2) Erecting canopy structures and keeping potential falling objects far enough from an edge, hole, or opening to prevent them from falling to a lower level; or
(3) Barricading the area into which objects could fall, prohibiting employees from entering the barricaded area, and keeping objects far enough from an edge or opening to prevent them from falling to a lower level.