§ 1910.262 Textiles.
§ 1910.262 Textiles.
(a) Application requirements —(1) Application. The requirements of this subpart for textile safety apply to the design, installation, processes, operation, and maintenance of textile machinery, equipment, and other plant facilities in all plants engaged in the manufacture and processing of textiles, except those processes used exclusively in the manufacture of synthetic fibers.
(2) Standards incorporated by reference. Standards covering issues of occupational safety and health which are of general application without regard to any specific industry are incorporated by reference in paragraphs of this section and made applicable to textiles. All such standards shall be construed according to the rules of construction set out in § 1910.5.
(b) Definitions applicable to this section —(1) Belt shifter. A belt shifter is a device for mechanically shifting a belt from one pulley to another.
(2) Belt shifter lock. A belt shifter lock is a device for positively locking the belt shifter in position while the machine is stopped and the belt is idling on the loose pulleys.
(3) Calender. A calender in essence consists of a set of heavy rollers mounted on vertical side frames and arranged to pass cloth between them. Calenders may have two to ten rollers, or bowls, some of which can be heated.
(4) Embossing calender. An embossing calender is a calender with two or more rolls, one of which is engraved for producing figured effects of various kinds on a fabric.
(5) Cans (drying). Drying cans are hollow cylindrical drums mounted in a frame so they can rotate. They are heated with steam and are used to dry fabrics or yarn as it passes around the perimeter of the can.
(6) Carbonizing. Carbonizing means the removing of vegetable matter such as burns, straws, etc., from wool by treatment with acid, followed by heat. The undesired matter is reduced to a carbon-like form which may be removed by dusting or shaking.
(7) Card. A card machine consists of cylinders of various sizes—and in certain cases flats—covered with card clothing and set in relation to each other so that fibers in staple form may be separated into individual relationship. The speed of the cylinders and their direction of rotation varies. The finished product is delivered as a sliver. Cards of different types are: The revolving flat card, the roller-and-clearer card, etc.
