§ 1910.178 Powered industrial trucks.
(D) The operator is assigned to drive a different type of truck; or (E) A condition in the workplace changes in a manner that could affect safe operation of the truck. (iii) An evaluation of each powered industrial truck operator's performance shall be conducted at least once every three years. (5) Avoidance of duplicative training. If an operator has previously received training in a topic specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section, and such training is appropriate to the truck and working conditions encountered, additional training in that topic is not required if the operator has been evaluated and found competent to operate the truck safely. (6) Certification. The employer shall certify that each operator has been trained and evaluated as required by this paragraph (l). The certification shall include the name of the operator, the date of the training, the date of the evaluation, and the identity of the person(s) performing the training or evaluation. (7) Dates. The employer shall ensure that operators of powered industrial trucks are trained, as appropriate, by the dates shown in the following table. If the employee was hired: The initial training and evaluation of that employee must be completed: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Before December 1, 1999 By December 1, 1999. After December 1, 1999 Before the employee is assigned to operate a powered industrial truck. (8) Appendix A to this section provides non-mandatory guidance to assist employers in implementing this paragraph (l). This appendix does not add to, alter, or reduce the requirements of this section. (m) Truck operations. (1) Trucks shall not be driven up to anyone standing in front of a bench or other fixed object. (2) No person shall be allowed to stand or pass under the elevated portion of any truck, whether loaded or empty. (3) Unauthorized personnel shall not be permitted to ride on powered industrial trucks. A safe place to ride shall be provided where riding of trucks is authorized. (4) The employer shall prohibit arms or legs from being placed between the uprights of the mast or outside the running lines of the