§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(a) General requirements—Application. This section includes safety requirements for sawmill operations including, but not limited to, log and lumber handling, sawing, trimming, and planing; waste disposal; operation of dry kilns; finishing; shipping; storage; yard and yard equipment; and for power tools and affiliated equipment used in connection with such operations, but excluding the manufacture of plywood, cooperage, and veneer.
(b) Definitions applicable to this section —(1) A-frame. The term A-frame means a structure made of two independent columns fastened together at the top and separated at the bottom for stability.
(2) Annealing. The term annealing means heating then cooling to soften and render less brittle.
(3) Binder. The term binder means a chain, cable, rope, or other approved material used for binding loads.
(4) Boom. The term boom means logs or timbers fastened together end to end and used to contain floating logs. The term includes enclosed logs.
(5) Brow log. The term brow log means a log placed parallel to a roadway at a landing or dump to protect vehicles while loading or unloading.
(6) Bunk. The term bunk means a cross support for a load.
(7) Cant. The term cant means a log slabbed on one or more sides.
(8) Carriage (log carriage). The term carriage means a framework mounted on wheels which runs on tracks or in grooves in a direction parallel to the face of the saw, and which contains apparatus to hold a log securely and advance it towards the saw.
(9) Carrier. The term carrier means an industrial truck so designed and constructed that it straddles the load to be transported with mechanisms to pick up the load and support it during transportation.
(10) Chipper. The term chipper means a machine which cuts material into chips.
(11) Chock (bunk block) (cheese block). The terms chock, bunk block, and cheese block mean a wedge that prevents logs or loads from moving.
(12) Cold deck. The term cold deck means a pile of logs stored for future removal.
(13) Crotch lines. The term crotch lines means two short lines attached to a hoisting line by a ring or shackle, the lower ends being attached to loading hooks.
