§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( b ) Equipment used in a building and the ventilation of the building shall be designed so as to limit flammable vapor-air mixtures under normal operating conditions to the interior of equipment, and to not more than 5 feet from equipment which exposes Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), to the air. Examples of such equipment are dispensing stations, open centrifuges, plate and frame filters, open vacuum filters, and surfaces of open equipment. (iv) Explosion relief. Areas where Category 1 or unstable liquids are processed shall have explosion venting through one or more of the following methods: ( a ) Open air construction. ( b ) Lightweight walls and roof. ( c ) Lightweight wall panels and roof hatches. ( d ) Windows of explosion venting type. (4) Liquid handling —(i) Storage. ( a ) The storage of flammable liquids in tanks shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. ( b ) If the storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground or underground tanks is not practical because of temperature or production considerations, tanks may be permitted inside of buildings or structures in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. ( c ) Storage tanks inside of buildings shall be permitted only in areas at or above grade which have adequate drainage and are separated from the processing area by construction having a fire resistance rating of at least 2 hours. ( d ) The storage of flammable liquids in containers shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. (ii) Piping, valves, and fittings. ( a ) Piping, valves, and fittings shall be in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. ( b ) Approved flexible connectors may be used where vibration exists or where frequent movement is necessary. Approved hose may be used at transfer stations. ( c ) Piping containing flammable liquids shall be identified. (iii) Transfer. ( a ) The transfer of large quantities of flammable liquids shall be through piping by means of pumps or water displacement. Except as required in process equipment, gravity flow shall not be used. The use of compressed air as a transferring medium is prohibited. ( b ) Positive displacement pumps shall be provided with pressure relief discharging back to the tank or