§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(5) Valve cap. Any cylinder which is designed to have a valve protection cap shall have the cap securely in place when the cylinder is not in service.
(f) Tank motor vehicles for the transportation of ammonia. (1) This paragraph applies to containers and pertinent equipment mounted on tank motor vehicles including semitrailers and full trailers used for the transportation of ammonia. This paragraph does not apply to farm vehicles. For requirements covering farm vehicles, refer to paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted. Containers and pertinent equipment for tank motor vehicles for the transportation of anhydrous ammonia, in addition to complying with the requirements of this section, shall also comply with the requirements of DOT.
(2) Design pressure and construction of containers. (i) The minimum design pressure for containers shall be that specified in the regulations of the DOT.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall not be less than three-sixteenth inch.
(iii) All container openings, except safety relief valves, liquid-level gaging devices, and pressure gages, shall be labeled to designate whether they communicate with liquid or vapor space.
(3) Container appurtenances. (i) All appurtenances shall be protected against physical damage.
(ii) All connections to containers, except filling connections, safety relief devices, and liquid-level and pressure gage connections, shall be provided with suitable automatic excess flow valves, or in lieu thereof, may be fitted with quick-closing internal valves, which shall remain closed except during delivery operations. The control mechanism for such valves may be provided with a secondary control remote from the delivery connections and such control mechanism shall be provided with a fusible section (melting point 208 degrees F. to 220 degrees F.) which will permit the internal valve to close automatically in case of fire.
(iii) Filling connections shall be provided with automatic back-pressure check valves, excess-flow valves, or quick-closing internal valves, to prevent back-flow in case the filling connection is broken. Where the filling and discharge connect to a common opening in the container shell and that opening is fitted with a quick-closing internal valve as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the automatic valve shall not be required.
