§ 1910.103 Hydrogen.
(b) Gaseous hydrogen systems —(1) Design —(i) Containers. ( a ) Hydrogen containers shall comply with one of the following:
( 1 ) Designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
( 2 ) Designed, constructed, tested and maintained in accordance with U.S. Department of Transportation Specifications and Regulations.
( b ) Permanently installed containers shall be provided with substantial noncombustible supports on firm noncombustible foundations.
( c ) Each portable container shall be legibly marked with the name "Hydrogen" in accordance with the marking requirements set forth in § 1910.253(b)(1)(ii). Each manifolded hydrogen supply unit shall be legibly marked with the name "Hydrogen" or a legend such as "This unit contains hydrogen."
(ii) Safety relief devices. ( a ) Hydrogen containers shall be equipped with safety relief devices as required by the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII Unfired Pressure Vessels, 1968 or the DOT Specifications and Regulations under which the container is fabricated.
( b ) Safety relief devices shall be arranged to discharge upward and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container, adjacent structure or personnel. This requirement does not apply to DOT Specification containers having an internal volume of 2 cubic feet or less.
( c ) Safety relief devices or vent piping shall be designed or located so that moisture cannot collect and freeze in a manner which would interfere with proper operation of the device.
(iii) Piping, tubing, and fittings. ( a ) Piping, tubing, and fittings shall be suitable for hydrogen service and for the pressures and temperatures involved. Cast iron pipe and fittings shall not be used.
( b ) Piping and tubing shall conform to section 2—"Industrial Gas and Air Piping"—Code for Pressure Piping, ANSI B31.1-1967 with addenda B31.1-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
