§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(viii) Fuel supply containers shall be gaged and charged only in the open air or in buildings especially provided for that purpose.
(ix) The maximum vapor pressure of the product at 100 degrees F. which may be transferred into a container shall be in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (e)(3) of this section. (For DOT containers use DOT requirements.)
(x) Marketers and users shall exercise precaution to assure that only those gases for which the system is designed, examined, and listed, are employed in its operation, particularly with regard to pressures.
(xi) Pumps or compressors shall be designed for use with LP-Gas. When compressors are used they shall normally take suction from the vapor space of the container being filled and discharge to the vapor space of the container being emptied.
(xii) Pumping systems, when equipped with a positive displacement pump, shall include a recirculating device which shall limit the differential pressure on the pump under normal operating conditions to the maximum differential pressure rating of the pump. The discharge of the pumping system shall be protected so that pressure does not exceed 350 p.s.i.g. If a recirculation system discharges into the supply tank and contains a manual shutoff valve, an adequate secondary safety recirculation system shall be incorporated which shall have no means of rendering it inoperative. Manual shutoff valves in recirculation systems shall be kept open except during an emergency or when repairs are being made to the system.
(xiii) When necessary, unloading piping or hoses shall be provided with suitable bleeder valves for relieving pressure before disconnection.
(xiv) Agricultural air moving equipment, including crop dryers, shall be shut down when supply containers are being filled unless the air intakes and sources of ignition on the equipment are located 50 feet or more from the container.
(xv) Agricultural equipment employing open flames or equipment with integral containers, such as flame cultivators, weed burners, and, in addition, tractors, shall be shut down during refueling.
(15) Tank car or transport truck loading or unloading points and operations. (i) The track of tank car siding shall be relatively level.
(ii) A "Tank Car Connected" sign, as covered by DOT rules, shall be installed at the active end or ends of the siding while the tank car is connected.
