§ 1910.219 Mechanical power-transmission apparatus.
(2) Engine rooms. In engine rooms a guardrail, preferably with toeboard, may be used instead of the guard required by paragraph (k)(1) of this section, provided such a room is occupied only by engine room attendants.
(l) Belt shifters, clutches, shippers, poles, perches, and fasteners —(1) Belt shifters. (i) Tight and loose pulleys on all new installations made on or after August 31, 1971, shall be equipped with a permanent belt shifter provided with mechanical means to prevent belt from creeping from loose to tight pulley. It is recommended that old installations be changed to conform to this rule.
(ii) Belt shifter and clutch handles shall be rounded and be located as far as possible from danger of accidental contact, but within easy reach of the operator. Where belt shifters are not directly located over a machine or bench, the handles shall be cut off six feet six inches (6 ft. 6 in.) above floor level.
(2) Belt shippers and shipper poles. The use of belt poles as substitutes for mechanical shifters is not recommended.
(3) Belt perches. Where loose pulleys or idlers are not practicable, belt perches in form of brackets, rollers, etc., shall be used to keep idle belts away from the shafts.
(4) Belt fasteners. Belts which of necessity must be shifted by hand and belts within seven (7) feet of the floor or working platform which are not guarded in accordance with this section shall not be fastened with metal in any case, nor with any other fastening which by construction or wear will constitute an accident hazard.
(m) Standard guards—general requirements —(1) Materials. (i) Standard conditions shall be secured by the use of the following materials. Expanded metal, perforated or solid sheet metal, wire mesh on a frame of angle iron, or iron pipe securely fastened to floor or to frame of machine.
(ii) All metal should be free from burrs and sharp edges.
(2) Methods of manufacture. (i) Expanded metal, sheet or perforated metal, and wire mesh shall be securely fastened to frame.
(ii) [Reserved]
(n) [Reserved]
