§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
engineer means a person who has been duly and currently registered and licensed by an authority within the United States or its territories to practice the profession of engineering. Roof powered platform means a working platform where the hoist(s) used to raise or lower the platform is located on the roof. Roof rigged davit means a davit used to raise the suspended working platform above the building face being serviced. This type of davit can also be used to raise a suspended working platform which has been ground-rigged. Rope means the equipment used to suspend a component of an equipment installation, i.e., wire rope. Safe surface means a horizontal surface intended to be occupied by personnel, which is so protected by a fall protection system that it can be reasonably assured that said occupants will be protected against falls. Secondary brake means a brake designed to arrest the descent of the suspended or supported equipment in the event of an overspeed condition. Self powered platform means a working platform where the hoist(s) used to raise or lower the platform is mounted on the platform. Speed reducer means a positive type speed reducing machine. Stability factor means the ratio of the stabilizing moment to the overturning moment. Stabilizer tie means a flexible line connecting the building anchor and the suspension wire rope supporting the platform. Supported equipment means building maintenance equipment that is held or moved to its working position by means of attachment directly to the building or extensions of the building being maintained. Suspended equipment means building maintenance equipment that is suspended and raised or lowered to its working position by means of ropes or combination cables attached to some anchorage above the equipment. Suspended scaffold (swinging scaffold) means a scaffold supported on wire or other ropes, used for work on, or for providing access to, vertical sides of structures on a temporary basis. Such scaffold is not designed for use on a specific structure or group of structures. Tail line means the nonsupporting end of the wire rope used to suspend the platform. Tie-in guides means the portion of a building that provides continuous positive engagement between the building and a suspended or supported unit during its vertical travel on the face of the building. Traction hoist means a type of hoisting machine that does not accumulate the suspension wire rope on the hoisting drum or sheave, and is designed to raise and lower a suspended load by the application of friction forces between the suspension wire rope and the drum or sheave. Transportable outriggers means outriggers designed to be moved from one work location to another. Trolley carriage means a carriage suspended from an overhead track structure. Verified means accepted by design, evaluation, or inspection by a registered professional engineer. Weatherproof means so constructed that exposure to adverse weather conditions will not affect or interfere with the proper use or functions of the equipment or component. Winding drum hoist means a type of hoisting machine that accumulates the suspension wire rope on the hoisting drum. Working platform means suspended