§ 1910.215 Abrasive wheel machinery.
§ 1910.215 Abrasive wheel machinery.
(a) General requirements —(1) Machine guarding. Abrasive wheels shall be used only on machines provided with safety guards as defined in the following paragraphs of this section, except:
(i) Wheels used for internal work while within the work being ground;
(ii) Mounted wheels, used in portable operations, 2 inches and smaller in diameter; and
(iii) Types 16, 17, 18, 18R, and 19 cones, plugs, and threaded hole pot balls where the work offers protection.
(2) Guard design. The safety guard shall cover the spindle end, nut, and flange projections. The safety guard shall be mounted so as to maintain proper alignment with the wheel, and the strength of the fastenings shall exceed the strength of the guard, except:
(i) Safety guards on all operations where the work provides a suitable measure of protection to the operator, may be so constructed that the spindle end, nut, and outer flange are exposed; and where the nature of the work is such as to entirely cover the side of the wheel, the side covers of the guard may be omitted; and
(ii) The spindle end, nut, and outer flange may be exposed on machines designed as portable saws.
(3) Flanges. Grinding machines shall be equipped with flanges in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(4) Work rests. On offhand grinding machines, work rests shall be used to support the work. They shall be of rigid construction and designed to be adjustable to compensate for wheel wear. Work rests shall be kept adjusted closely to the wheel with a maximum opening of one-eighth inch to prevent the work from being jammed between the wheel and the rest, which may cause wheel breakage. The work rest shall be securely clamped after each adjustment. The adjustment shall not be made with the wheel in motion.
(5) Excluded machinery. Natural sandstone wheels and metal, wooden, cloth, or paper discs, having a layer of abrasive on the surface are not covered by this section.
(b) Guarding of abrasive wheel machinery —(1) Cup wheels. Cup wheels (Types 6 and 11) shall be protected by:
(i) Safety guards as specified in paragraphs (b) (1) through (10) of this section;
