§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(40) Swing means the rotation of the superstructure for movement of loads in a horizontal direction about the axis of rotation.
(41) Swing mechanism means the machinery involved in providing rotation of the superstructure.
(42) Tackle is an assembly of ropes and sheaves arranged for hoisting and pulling.
(43) Transit means the moving or transporting of a crane from one jobsite to another.
(44) Travel means the function of the machine moving from one location to another, on a jobsite.
(45) The travel mechanism is the machinery involved in providing travel.
(46) Wheelbase means the distance between centers of front and rear axles. For a multiple axle assembly the axle center for wheelbase measurement is taken as the midpoint of the assembly.
(47) The whipline (auxiliary hoist) is a separate hoist rope system of lighter load capacity and higher speed than provided by the main hoist.
(48) A winch head is a power driven spool for handling of loads by means of friction between fiber or wire rope and spool.
(b) General requirements —(1) Application. This section applies to crawler cranes, locomotive cranes, wheel mounted cranes of both truck and self-propelled wheel type, and any variations thereof which retain the same fundamental characteristics. This section includes only cranes of the above types, which are basically powered by internal combustion engines or electric motors and which utilize drums and ropes. Cranes designed for railway and automobile wreck clearances are excepted. The requirements of this section are applicable only to machines when used as lifting cranes.
(2) New and existing equipment. All new crawler, locomotive, and truck cranes constructed and utilized on or after August 31, 1971, shall meet the design specifications of the American National Standard Safety Code for Crawler, Locomotive, and Truck Cranes, ANSI B30.5-1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6. Crawler, locomotive, and truck cranes constructed prior to August 31, 1971, should be modified to conform to those design specifications by February 15, 1972, unless it can be shown that the crane cannot feasibly or economically be altered and that the crane substantially complies with the requirements of this section.
(3) Designated personnel. Only designated personnel shall be permitted to operate a crane covered by this section.
