§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(vi) The comprehensive workplan shall provide for the implementation of the medical surveillance program described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(4) Site-specific safety and health plan part of the program —(i) General. The site safety and health plan, which must be kept on site, shall address the safety and health hazards of each phase of site operation and include the requirements and procedures for employee protection.
(ii) Elements. The site safety and health plan, as a minimum, shall address the following:
(A) A safety and health risk or hazard analysis for each site task and operation found in the workplan.
(B) Employee training assignments to assure compliance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(C) Personal protective equipment to be used by employees for each of the site tasks and operations being conducted as required by the personal protective equipment program in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
(D) Medical surveillance requirements in accordance with the program in paragraph (f) of this section.
(E) Frequency and types of air monitoring, personnel monitoring, and environmental sampling techniques and instrumentation to be used, including methods of maintenance and calibration of monitoring and sampling equipment to be used.
(F) Site control measures in accordance with the site control program required in paragraph (d) of this section.
(G) Decontamination procedures in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
(H) An emergency response plan meeting the requirements of paragraph (l) of this section for safe and effective responses to emergencies, including the necessary PPE and other equipment.
(I) Confined space entry procedures.
(J) A spill containment program meeting the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
(iii) Pre-entry briefing. The site specific safety and health plan shall provide for pre-entry briefings to be held prior to initiating any site activity, and at such other times as necessary to ensure that employees are apprised of the site safety and health plan and that this plan is being followed. The information and data obtained from site characterization and analysis work required in paragraph (c) of this section shall be used to prepare and update the site safety and health plan.
