§ 1910.307 Hazardous (classified) locations.
(vi) Increased safety "e"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
(vii) Encapsulation "m"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
(viii) Powder Filling "q"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
(4) Special precaution. Paragraph (g) of this section requires equipment construction and installation that will ensure safe performance under conditions of proper use and maintenance.
(i) Classification of areas and selection of equipment and wiring methods shall be under the supervision of a qualified registered professional engineer.
(ii) In instances of areas within the same facility classified separately, Class I, Zone 2 locations may abut, but not overlap, Class I, Division 2 locations. Class I, Zone 0 or Zone 1 locations may not abut Class I, Division 1 or Division 2 locations.
(iii) A Class I, Division 1 or Division 2 location may be reclassified as a Class I, Zone 0, Zone 1, or Zone 2 location only if all of the space that is classified because of a single flammable gas or vapor source is reclassified.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(4) of this section: Low ambient conditions require special consideration. Electric equipment depending on the protection techniques described by paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section may not be suitable for use at temperatures lower than −20 degrees C (−4 degrees F) unless they are approved for use at lower temperatures. However, at low ambient temperatures, flammable concentrations of vapors may not exist in a location classified Class I, Zone 0, 1, or 2 at normal ambient temperature.
(5) Listing and marking. (i) Equipment that is listed for a Zone 0 location may be installed in a Zone 1 or Zone 2 location of the same gas or vapor. Equipment that is listed for a Zone 1 location may be installed in a Zone 2 location of the same gas or vapor.
(ii) Equipment shall be marked in accordance with paragraph (g)(5)(ii)(A) and (g)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, except as provided in (g)(5)(ii)(C).
