§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
(j) Jointers. (1) Each hand-fed planer and jointer with horizontal head shall be equipped with a cylindrical cutting head, the knife projection of which shall not exceed one-eighth inch beyond the cylindrical body of the head. (2) The opening in the table shall be kept as small as possible. The clearance between the edge of the rear table and the cutter head shall be not more than one-eighth inch. The table throat opening shall be not more than 2 1/2 inches when tables are set or aligned with each other for zero cut. (3) Each hand-fed jointer with a horizontal cutting head shall have an automatic guard which will cover all the section of the head on the working side of the fence or gage. The guard shall effectively keep the operator's hand from coming in contact with the revolving knives. The guard shall automatically adjust itself to cover the unused portion of the head and shall remain in contact with the material at all times. (4) Each hand-fed jointer with horizontal cutting head shall have a guard which will cover the section of the head back of the gage or fence. (5) Each wood jointer with vertical head shall have either an exhaust hood or other guard so arranged as to enclose completely the revolving head, except for a slot of such width as may be necessary and convenient for the application of the material to be jointed. (k) Tenoning machines. (1) Feed chains and sprockets of all double end tenoning machines shall be completely enclosed, except for that portion of chain used for conveying the stock. (2) At the rear ends of frames over which feed conveyors run, sprockets and chains shall be guarded at the sides by plates projecting beyond the periphery of sprockets and the ends of lugs. (3) Each tenoning machine shall have all cutting heads, and saws if used, covered by metal guards. These guards shall cover at least the unused part of the periphery of the cutting head. If such a guard is constructed of sheet metal, the material used shall be not less than one-sixteenth inch in thickness, and if cast iron is used, it shall be not less than three-sixteenths inch in thickness. (4) Where an exhaust system is used, the guard shall form part or all of the exhaust hood and shall be constructed of metal of a thickness not less than that specified in subparagraph (3) of this