§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(B) Understand classification, identification and verification of known and unknown materials by using advanced survey instruments and equipment.
(C) Know of the state emergency response plan.
(D) Be able to select and use proper specialized chemical personal protective equipment provided to the hazardous materials specialist.
(E) Understand in-depth hazard and risk techniques.
(F) Be able to perform specialized control, containment, and/or confinement operations within the capabilities of the resources and personal protective equipment available.
(G) Be able to determine and implement decontamination procedures.
(H) Have the ability to develop a site safety and control plan.
(I) Understand chemical, radiological and toxicological terminology and behavior.
(v) On scene incident commander. Incident commanders, who will assume control of the incident scene beyond the first responder awareness level, shall receive at least 24 hours of training equal to the first responder operations level and in addition have competency in the following areas and the employer shall so certify:
(A) Know and be able to implement the employer's incident command system.
(B) Know how to implement the employer's emergency response plan.
(C) Know and understand the hazards and risks associated with employees working in chemical protective clothing.
(D) Know how to implement the local emergency response plan.
(E) Know of the state emergency response plan and of the Federal Regional Response Team.
(F) Know and understand the importance of decontamination procedures.
(7) Trainers. Trainers who teach any of the above training subjects shall have satisfactorily completed a training course for teaching the subjects they are expected to teach, such as the courses offered by the U.S. National Fire Academy, or they shall have the training and/or academic credentials and instructional experience necessary to demonstrate competent instructional skills and a good command of the subject matter of the courses they are to teach.
(8) Refresher training. (i) Those employees who are trained in accordance with paragraph (q)(6) of this section shall receive annual refresher training of sufficient content and duration to maintain their competencies, or shall demonstrate competency in those areas at least yearly.
(ii) A statement shall be made of the training or competency, and if a statement of competency is made, the employer shall keep a record of the methodology used to demonstrate competency.
