§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(m) Rope inspection —(1) Running ropes. A thorough inspection of all ropes shall be made at least once a month and a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and an identifier for the ropes which were inspected shall be kept on file where readily available to appointed personnel. Any deterioration, resulting in appreciable loss of original strength, shall be carefully observed and determination made as to whether further use of the rope would constitute a safety hazard. Some of the conditions that could result in an appreciable loss of strength are the following: (i) Reduction of rope diameter below nominal diameter due to loss of core support, internal or external corrosion, or wear of outside wires. (ii) A number of broken outside wires and the degree of distribution or concentration of such broken wires. (iii) Worn outside wires. (iv) Corroded or broken wires at end connections. (v) Corroded, cracked, bent, worn, or improperly applied end connections. (vi) Severe kinking, crushing, cutting, or unstranding. (2) Other ropes. All rope which has been idle for a period of a month or more due to shutdown or storage of a crane on which it is installed shall be given a thorough inspection before it is used. This inspection shall be for all types of deterioration and shall be performed by an appointed person whose approval shall be required for further use of the rope. A certification record shall be available for inspection which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and an identifier for the rope which was inspected. (n) Handling the load —(1) Size of load. The crane shall not be loaded beyond its rated load except for test purposes as provided in paragraph (k) of this section. (2) Attaching the load. (i) The hoist chain or hoist rope shall be free from kinks or twists and shall not be wrapped around the load. (ii) The load shall be attached to the load block hook by means of slings or other approved devices. (iii) Care shall be taken to make certain that the sling clears all obstacles. (3) Moving the load. (i) The load shall be well secured and properly balanced in the sling or lifting device before it is lifted more than a few inches. (ii) Before starting to hoist the following conditions shall be