§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(5) Capacity of liquid containers. Individual liquid storage containers shall not exceed 30,000 gallons water capacity.
(6) Installation of storage containers. (i)( a ) Each storage container used exclusively in service station operation shall comply with the following table which specifies minimum distances to a building and groups of buildings.

Water capacity per container (gallons) Minimum distances Aboveground and underground (feet) Between aboveground containers (feet)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Up to 2,000 25 3
Over 2,000 50 5

( b ) Readily ignitible material including weeds and long dry grass, shall be removed within 10 feet of containers.
( c ) The minimum separation between LP-Gas containers and flammable liquid tanks shall be 20 feet and the minimum separation between a container and the centerline of the dike shall be 10 feet.
( d ) LP-Gas containers located near flammable liquid containers shall be protected against the flow or accumulation of flammable liquids by diking, diversion curbs, or grading.
( e ) LP-Gas containers shall not be located within diked areas for flammable liquid containers.
( f ) Field welding is permitted only on saddle plates or brackets which were applied by the container manufacturer.
( g ) When permanently installed containers are interconnected, provision shall be made to compensate for expansion, contraction, vibration, and settling of containers and interconnecting piping. Where flexible connections are used, they shall be of an approved type and shall be designed for a bursting pressure of not less than five times the vapor pressure of the product at 100 degrees F. The use of nonmetallic hose is prohibited for interconnecting such containers.
( h ) Where high water table or flood conditions may be encountered protection against container flotation shall be provided.
(ii) Aboveground containers shall be installed in accordance with this subdivision.
( a ) Containers may be installed horizontally or vertically.
