§ 1910.1003 13 Carcinogens (4-Nitrobiphenyl, etc.).
(c) Requirements for areas containing a carcinogen addressed by this section. A regulated area shall be established by an employer where a carcinogen addressed by this section is manufactured, processed, used, repackaged, released, handled or stored. All such areas shall be controlled in accordance with the requirements for the following category or categories describing the operation involved:
(1) Isolated systems. Employees working with a carcinogen addressed by this section within an isolated system such as a "glove box" shall wash their hands and arms upon completion of the assigned task and before engaging in other activities not associated with the isolated system.
(2) Closed system operation. (i) Within regulated areas where the carcinogens addressed by this section are stored in sealed containers, or contained in a closed system, including piping systems, with any sample ports or openings closed while the carcinogens addressed by this section are contained within, access shall be restricted to authorized employees only.
(ii) Employees exposed to 4-Nitrobiphenyl; alpha-Naphthylamine; 3,′-Dichlorobenzidine (and its salts); beta-Naphthylamine; benzidine; 4-Aminodiphenyl; 2-Acetylaminofluorene; 4-Dimethylaminoazo-benzene; and N-Nitrosodimethylamine shall be required to wash hands, forearms, face, and neck upon each exit from the regulated areas, close to the point of exit, and before engaging in other activities.
(3) Open-vessel system operations. Open-vessel system operations as defined in paragraph (b)(13) of this section are prohibited.
(4) Transfer from a closed system, charging or discharging point operations, or otherwise opening a closed system. In operations involving "laboratory-type hoods," or in locations where the carcinogens addressed by this section are contained in an otherwise "closed system," but is transferred, charged, or discharged into other normally closed containers, the provisions of this paragraph shall apply.
(i) Access shall be restricted to authorized employees only.
