§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(xii) The chain saw shall be carried in a manner that will prevent operator contact with the cutting chain and muffler.
(xiii) The chain saw shall be shut off or the throttle released before the feller starts his retreat.
(xiv) The chain saw shall be shut down or the chain brake shall be engaged whenever a saw is carried further than 50 feet (15.2 m). The chain saw shall be shut down or the chain brake shall be engaged when a saw is carried less than 50 feet if conditions such as, but not limited to, the terrain, underbrush and slippery surfaces, may create a hazard for an employee.
(f) Machines —(1) General requirements. (i) The employer shall assure that each machine, including any machine provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition.
(ii) The employer shall assure that each machine, including any machine provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. Defects or damage shall be repaired or the unserviceable machine shall be replaced before work is commenced.
(iii) The employer shall assure that operating and maintenance instructions are available on the machine or in the area where the machine is being operated. Each machine operator and maintenance employee shall comply with the operating and maintenance instructions.
(2) Machine operation. (i) The machine shall be started and operated only by a designated person.
(ii) Stationary logging machines and their components shall be anchored or otherwise stabilized to prevent movement during operation.
(iii) The rated capacity of any machine shall not be exceeded.
(iv) To maintain stability, the machine must be operated within the limitations imposed by the manufacturer as described in the operating and maintenance instructions for that machine.
(v) Before starting or moving any machine, the operator shall determine that no employee is in the path of the machine.
(vi) The machine shall be operated only from the operator's station or as otherwise recommended by the manufacturer.
(vii) The machine shall be operated at such a distance from employees and other machines such that operation will not create a hazard for an employee.
(viii) No employee other than the operator shall ride on any mobile machine unless seating, seat belts and other protection equivalent to that provided for the operator are provided.
(ix) No employee shall ride on any load.
