§ 1910.216 Mills and calenders in the rubber and plastics industries.
(a) General requirements —
(1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3) Auxiliary equipment. Mechanical and electrical equipment and auxiliaries shall be installed in accordance with this section and subpart S of this part.
(4) Mill roll heights. All new mill installations shall be installed so that the top of the operating rolls is not less than 50 inches above the level on which the operator stands, irrespective of the size of the mill. This distance shall apply to the actual working level, whether it be at the general floor level, in a pit, or on a platform.
(b) Mill safety controls —(1) Safety trip control. A safety trip control shall be provided in front and in back of each mill. It shall be accessible and shall operate readily on contact. The safety trip control shall be one of the following types or a combination thereof:
(i) Pressure-sensitive body bars. Installed at front and back of each mill having a 46-inch roll height or over. These bars shall operate readily by pressure of the mill operator's body.
(ii) Safety triprod. Installed in the front and in the back of each mill and located within 2 inches of a vertical plane tangent to the front and rear rolls. The top rods shall be not more than 72 inches above the level on which the operator stands. The triprods shall be accessible and shall operate readily whether the rods are pushed or pulled.
(iii) Safety tripwire cable or wire center cord. Installed in the front and in the back of each mill and located within 2 inches of a vertical plane tangent to the front and rear rolls. The cables shall not be more than 72 inches above the level on which the operator stands. The tripwire cable or wire center cord shall operate readily whether cable or cord is pushed or pulled.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Auxiliary equipment. All auxiliary equipment such as mill divider, support bars, spray pipes, feed conveyors, strip knives, etc., shall be located in such a manner as to avoid interference with access to and operation of safety devices.
