§ 1910.215 Abrasive wheel machinery.
(8) Dimensions. (i) Tables O-4 and O-6 and Figures O-30 and O-32 show minimum dimensions for straight relieved and unrelieved flanges for use with wheels with small holes that fit directly on the machine spindle. Dimensions of such flanges shall never be less than indicated.
(ii) Table O-5, and Table O-7 and Figures O-31, O-33, O-34 show minimum dimensions for straight adaptor flanges for use with wheels having holes larger than the spindle. Dimensions of such adaptor flanges shall never be less than indicated.
(iii) Table O-8 and Figure O-35 show minimum dimensions for straight flanges that are an integral part of wheel sleeves which are frequently used on precision grinding machines. Dimensions of such flanges shall never be less than indicated.
(9) Repairs and maintenance. All flanges shall be maintained in good condition. When the bearing surfaces become worn, warped, sprung, or damaged they should be trued or refaced. When refacing or truing, care shall be exercised to make sure that proper relief and rigidity is maintained as specified in paragraphs (c) (2) and (5) of this section and they shall be replaced when they do not conform to these subparagraphs and Table O-4, Figure O-30, Table O-5, Figure O-31, Table O-6, Figure O-32, and Table O-8, Figure O-35. Failure to observe these rules might cause excessive flange pressure around the hole of the wheel. This is especially true of wheel-sleeve or adaptor flanges.
(d) Mounting —(1) Inspection. Immediately before mounting, all wheels shall be closely inspected and sounded by the user (ring test) to make sure they have not been damaged in transit, storage, or otherwise. The spindle speed of the machine shall be checked before mounting of the wheel to be certain that it does not exceed the maximum operating speed marked on the wheel. Wheels should be tapped gently with a light nonmetallic implement, such as the handle of a screwdriver for light wheels, or a wooden mallet for heavier wheels. If they sound cracked (dead), they shall not be used. This is known as the "Ring Test".
