§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
(ii) The exception in paragraph (b)(7)(v)( d ) of this section for two hand controls manufactured and installed before August 31, 1971 is not applicable under this paragraph (c)(5);
(iii) The control of air clutch machines shall be designed to prevent a significant increase in the normal stopping time due to a failure within the operating valve mechanism, and to inhibit further operation if such failure does occur, where a part revolution clutch is employed. The exception in paragraph (b)(7)(xi) of this section for controls manufactured and installed before August 31, 1971, is not applicable under this paragraph (c)(5).
(d) Design, construction, setting and feeding of dies —(1) General requirements. The employer shall: (i) Use dies and operating methods designed to control or eliminate hazards to operating personnel, and (ii) furnish and enforce the use of hand tools for freeing and removing stuck work or scrap pieces from the die, so that no employee need reach into the point of operation for such purposes.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Scrap handling. The employer shall provide means for handling scrap from roll feed or random length stock operations. Scrap cutters used in conjunction with scrap handling systems shall be safeguarded in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and with § 1910.219.
(4) Guide post hazard. The hazard created by a guide post (when it is located in the immediate vicinity of the operator) when separated from its bushing by more than one-fourth inch shall be considered as a point of operation hazard and be protected in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) Unitized tooling. If unitized tooling is used, the opening between the top of the punch holder and the face of the slide, or striking pad, shall be safeguarded in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(6) Tonnage, stroke, and weight designation. All dies shall be:
(i) Stamped with the tonnage and stroke requirements, or have these characteristics recorded if these records are readily available to the die setter;
(ii) Stamped to indicate upper die weight when necessary for air counterbalance pressure adjustment; and
(iii) Stamped to indicate complete die weight when handling equipment may become overloaded.
