§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(ii) Containers with a design pressure exceeding 15 p.s.i.g. shall be constructed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the materials shall be selected from those listed in API Standard 620, Recommended Rules for Design and Construction of Large, Welded, Low-Pressure Storage Tanks, Fourth Edition, 1970, Tables 2.02, R2.2, R2.2(A), R2.2.1, or R2.3 which are incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(iii) Containers with a design pressure of 15 p.s.i.g. and less shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable requirements of API Standard 620 including its appendix R.
(iv) When austenitic steels or nonferrous materials are used, the Code shall be used as a guide in the selection of materials for use at the design temperature.
(v) The filling density for refrigerated storage containers shall be such that the container will not be liquid full at a liquid temperature corresponding to the vapor pressure at the start-to-discharge pressure setting of the safety-relief valve.
(2) Installation of refrigerated storage containers. (i) Containers shall be supported on suitable noncombustible foundations designed to accommodate the type of container being used.
(ii) Adequate protection against flotation or other water damage shall be provided wherever high flood water might occur.
(iii) Containers for product storage at less than 32 degrees F. shall be supported in such a way, or heat shall be supplied, to prevent the effects of freezing and consequent frost heaving.
(3) Shutoff valves. When operating conditions make it advisable, a check valve shall be installed on the fill connection and a remotely operated shutoff valve on other connections located below the maximum liquid level.
(4) Safety relief devices. (i) Safety relief valves shall be set to start-to-discharge at a pressure not in excess of the design pressure of the container and shall have a total relieving capacity sufficient to prevent a maximum pressure in the container of more than 120 percent of the design pressure. Relief valves for refrigerated storage containers shall be self-contained spring-loaded, weight-loaded, or self-contained pilot-operated type.
(ii) The total relieving capacity shall be the larger of:
