§ 1910.255 Resistance welding.
(c) Portable welding machines —(1) Counterbalance. All portable welding guns shall have suitable counterbalanced devices for supporting the guns, including cables, unless the design of the gun or fixture makes counterbalancing impractical or unnecessary.
(2) Safety chains. All portable welding guns, transformers and related equipment that is suspended from overhead structures, eye beams, trolleys, etc., shall be equipped with safety chains or cables. Safety chains or cables shall be capable of supporting the total shock load in the event of failure of any component of the supporting system.
(3) Clevis. Each clevis shall be capable of supporting the total shock load of the suspended equipment in the event of trolley failure.
(4) Switch guards. All initiating switches, including retraction and dual schedule switches, located on the portable welding gun shall be equipped with suitable guards capable of preventing accidental initiation through contact with fixturing, operator's clothing, etc. Initiating switch voltage shall not exceed 24 volts.
(5) Moving holder. The movable holder, where it enters the gun frame, shall have sufficient clearance to prevent the shearing of fingers carelessly placed on the operating movable holder.
(6) Grounding. The secondary and case of all portable welding transformers shall be grounded. Secondary grounding may be by center tapped secondary or by a center tapped grounding reactor connected across the secondary.
(d) Flash welding equipment —(1) Ventilation and flash guard. Flash welding machines shall be equipped with a hood to control flying flash. In cases of high production, where materials may contain a film of oil and where toxic elements and metal fumes are given off, ventilation shall be provided in accordance with § 1910.252(c) of this part.
(2) Fire curtains. For the protection of the operators of nearby equipment, fire-resistant curtains or suitable shields shall be set up around the machine and in such a manner that the operators movements are not hampered.
