§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(vi) Hose and hose connections on the low-pressure side of the regulator or reducing valve shall be designed for a bursting pressure of not less than 125 p.s.i.g. or five times the set pressure of the relief devices protecting that portion of the system, whichever is higher. (vii) Hose may be used on the low-pressure side of regulators to connect to other than domestic and commercial gas appliances under the following conditions: ( a ) The appliances connected with hose shall be portable and need a flexible connection. ( b ) For use inside buildings the hose shall be of minimum practical length, but shall not exceed 6 feet except as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(i)( g ) of this section and shall not extend from one room to another, nor pass through any walls, partitions, ceilings, or floors. Such hose shall not be concealed from view or used in a concealed location. For use outside of buildings, the hose may exceed this length but shall be kept as short as practical. ( c ) The hose shall be approved and shall not be used where it is likely to be subjected to temperatures above 125 degrees F. The hose shall be securely connected to the appliance and the use of rubber slip ends shall not be permitted. ( d ) The shutoff valve for an appliance connected by hose shall be in the metal pipe or tubing and not at the appliance end of the hose. When shutoff valves are installed close to each other, precautions shall be taken to prevent operation of the wrong valve. ( e ) Hose used for connecting to wall outlets shall be protected from physical damage. (10) Safety devices. (i) Every container except those constructed in accordance with DOT specifications and every vaporizer (except motor fuel vaporizers and except vaporizers described in paragraph (b)(11)(ii)( c ) of this section and paragraph (d)(4)(v)( a ) of this section) whether heated by artificial means or not, shall be provided with one or more safety relief valves of spring-loaded or equivalent type. These valves shall be arranged to afford free vent to the outer air with discharge not less than 5 feet horizontally away from any opening into the building which is below such discharge. The rate of discharge shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(10)(ii) or (b)(10)(iii)