§ 1910.1053 Respirable crystalline silica.
(2) Written exposure control plan. (i) The employer shall establish and implement a written exposure control plan that contains at least the following elements:
(A) A description of the tasks in the workplace that involve exposure to respirable crystalline silica;
(B) A description of the engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica for each task; and
(C) A description of the housekeeping measures used to limit employee exposure to respirable crystalline silica.
(ii) The employer shall review and evaluate the effectiveness of the written exposure control plan at least annually and update it as necessary.
(iii) The employer shall make the written exposure control plan readily available for examination and copying, upon request, to each employee covered by this section, their designated representatives, the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(3) Abrasive blasting. In addition to the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the employer shall comply with other OSHA standards, when applicable, such as 29 CFR 1910.94 (Ventilation), 29 CFR 1915.34 (Mechanical paint removers), and 29 CFR 1915 Subpart I (Personal Protective Equipment), where abrasive blasting is conducted using crystalline silica-containing blasting agents, or where abrasive blasting is conducted on substrates that contain crystalline silica.
(g) Respiratory protection —(1) General. Where respiratory protection is required by this section, the employer must provide each employee an appropriate respirator that complies with the requirements of this paragraph and 29 CFR 1910.134. Respiratory protection is required:
(i) Where exposures exceed the PEL during periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work practice controls;
(ii) Where exposures exceed the PEL during tasks, such as certain maintenance and repair tasks, for which engineering and work practice controls are not feasible;
(iii) During tasks for which an employer has implemented all feasible engineering and work practice controls and such controls are not sufficient to reduce exposures to or below the PEL; and
(iv) During periods when the employee is in a regulated area.
(2) Respiratory protection program. Where respirator use is required by this section, the employer shall institute a respiratory protection program in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134.
