§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(v) Program availability. The written safety and health program shall be made available to any contractor or subcontractor or their representative who will be involved with the hazardous waste operation; to employees; to employee designated representatives; to OSHA personnel, and to personnel of other Federal, state, or local agencies with regulatory authority over the site.
(2) Organizational structure part of the site program —(i) The organizationa1 structure part of the program shall establish the specific chain of command and specify the overall responsibilities of supervisors and employees. It shall include, at a minimum, the following elements:
(A) A general supervisor who has the responsibility and authority to direct all hazardous waste operations.
(B) A site safety and health supervisor who has the responsibility and authority to develop and implement the site safety and health plan and verify compliance.
(C) All other personnel needed for hazardous waste site operations and emergency response and their general functions and responsibilities.
(D) The lines of authority, responsibility, and communication.
(ii) The organizational structure shall be reviewed and updated as necessary to reflect the current status of waste site operations.
(3) Comprehensive workplan part of the site program. The comprehensive workplan part of the program shall address the tasks and objectives of the site operations and the logistics and resources required to reach those tasks and objectives.
(i) The comprehensive workplan shall address anticipated clean-up activities as well as normal operating procedures which need not repeat the employer's procedures available elsewhere.
(ii) The comprehensive workplan shall define work tasks and objectives and identify the methods for accomplishing those tasks and objectives.
(iii) The comprehensive workplan shall establish personnel requirements for implementing the plan.
(iv) The comprehensive workplan shall provide for the implementation of the training required in paragraph (e) of this section.
(v) The comprehensive workplan shall provide for the implementation of the required informational programs required in paragraph (i) of this section.
(vi) The comprehensive workplan shall provide for the implementation of the medical surveillance program described in paragraph (f) of this section.
