§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(6) Application of bridge brakes. (i) On cab-operated cranes with cab on bridge, a bridge brake is required as specified under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(ii) On cab-operated cranes with cab on trolley, a bridge brake of the holding type shall be required.
(iii) On all floor, remote and pulpit-operated crane bridge drives, a brake of noncoasting mechanical drive shall be provided.
(g) Electric equipment —(1) General. (i) Wiring and equipment shall comply with subpart S of this part.
(ii) The control circuit voltage shall not exceed 600 volts for a.c. or d.c. current.
(iii) The voltage at pendant push-buttons shall not exceed 150 volts for a.c. and 300 volts for d.c.
(iv) Where multiple conductor cable is used with a suspended pushbutton station, the station must be supported in some satisfactory manner that will protect the electrical conductors against strain.
(v) Pendant control boxes shall be constructed to prevent electrical shock and shall be clearly marked for identification of functions.
(2) Equipment. (i) Electrical equipment shall be so located or enclosed that live parts will not be exposed to accidental contact under normal operating conditions.
(ii) Electric equipment shall be protected from dirt, grease, oil, and moisture.
(iii) Guards for live parts shall be substantial and so located that they cannot be accidently deformed so as to make contact with the live parts.
(3) Controllers. (i) Cranes not equipped with spring-return controllers or momentary contact pushbuttons shall be provided with a device which will disconnect all motors from the line on failure of power and will not permit any motor to be restarted until the controller handle is brought to the "off" position, or a reset switch or button is operated.
(ii) Lever operated controllers shall be provided with a notch or latch which in the "off" position prevents the handle from being inadvertently moved to the "on" position. An "off" detent or spring return arrangement is acceptable.
(iii) The controller operating handle shall be located within convenient reach of the operator.
