§ 1910.216 Mills and calenders in the rubber and plastics industries.
(3) Auxiliary equipment. All auxiliary equipment such as mill divider, support bars, spray pipes, feed conveyors, strip knives, etc., shall be located in such a manner as to avoid interference with access to and operation of safety devices. (c) Calender safety controls —(1) Safety trip, face. A safety triprod, cable, or wire center cord shall be provided across each pair of in-running rolls extending the length of the face of the rolls. It shall be readily accessible and operate whether pushed or pulled. The safety tripping devices shall be located within reach of the operator and the bite. (2) Safety trip, side. On both sides of the calender and near each end of the face of the roll, there shall be a cable or wire center cord connected to the safety trip. They shall operate readily when pushed or pulled. (d) Protection by location —(1) Mills. Where a mill is so installed that persons cannot normally reach through, over, under, or around to come in contact with the roll bite or be caught between a roll and an adjacent object, then, provided such elements are made a fixed part of a mill, safety control devices listed in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply. (2) Calenders. Where a calender is so installed that persons cannot normally reach through, over, under, or around to come in contact with the roll bite or be caught between a roll and an adjacent object, then, provided such elements are made a fixed part of a calender, safety control devices listed in paragraph (c) of this section shall not apply. (e) Trip and emergency switches. All trip and emergency switches shall not be of the automatically resetting type, but shall require manual resetting. (f) Stopping limits —(1) Determination of distance of travel. All measurements on mills and calenders shall be taken with the rolls running empty at maximum operating speed. Stopping distances shall be expressed in inches of surface travel of the roll from the instant the emergency stopping device is actuated. (2) Stopping limits for mills. All mills irrespective of the size of the rolls or their arrangement (individually or group-driven) shall be stopped within a distance, as measured in inches of surface travel, not greater than 1 1/2 percent of the peripheral no-load surface speeds of the respective rolls as determined in feet per