§ 1910.119 Process safety management of highly hazardous chemicals.
(iii) The frequency of inspections and tests of process equipment shall be consistent with applicable manufacturers' recommendations and good engineering practices, and more frequently if determined to be necessary by prior operating experience. (iv) The employer shall document each inspection and test that has been performed on process equipment. The documentation shall identify the date of the inspection or test, the name of the person who performed the inspection or test, the serial number or other identifier of the equipment on which the inspection or test was performed, a description of the inspection or test performed, and the results of the inspection or test. (5) Equipment deficiencies. The employer shall correct deficiencies in equipment that are outside acceptable limits (defined by the process safety information in paragraph (d) of this section) before further use or in a safe and timely manner when necessary means are taken to assure safe operation. (6) Quality assurance. (i) In the construction of new plants and equipment, the employer shall assure that equipment as it is fabricated is suitable for the process application for which they will be used. (ii) Appropriate checks and inspections shall be performed to assure that equipment is installed properly and consistent with design specifications and the manufacturer's instructions. (iii) The employer shall assure that maintenance materials, spare parts and equipment are suitable for the process application for which they will be used. (k) Hot work permit. (1) The employer shall issue a hot work permit for hot work operations conducted on or near a covered process. (2) The permit shall document that the fire prevention and protection requirements in 29 CFR 1910.252(a) have been implemented prior to beginning the hot work operations; it shall indicate the date(s) authorized for hot work; and identify the object on which hot work is to be performed. The permit shall be kept on file until completion of the hot work operations. (l) Management of change. (1) The employer shall establish and implement written procedures to manage changes (except for "replacements in kind") to process chemicals, technology, equipment, and procedures; and, changes to facilities that affect a covered process. (2) The procedures shall assure that the following considerations are addressed prior to any change: (i) The technical basis for the proposed change; (ii) Impact of change on safety and health; (iii) Modifications to operating procedures; (iv) Necessary time period for the change; and, (v) Authorization requirements for the proposed