§ 1910.103 Hydrogen.
( e ) Adequate lighting shall be provided for nighttime transfer operation. (ii) Separate buildings. ( a ) Separate buildings shall be of light noncombustible construction on a substantial frame. Walls and roofs shall be lightly fastened and designed to relieve at a maximum internal pressure of 25 pounds per square foot. Windows shall be of shatterproof glass or plastic in metal frames. Doors shall be located in such a manner that they will be readily accessible to personnel in an emergency. ( b ) Adequate ventilation to the outdoors shall be provided. Inlet openings shall be located near the floor level in exterior walls only. Outlet openings shall be located at the high point of the room in exterior walls or roof. Both the inlet and outlet vent openings shall have a minimum total area of 1 square foot per 1,000 cubic feet of room volume. Discharge from outlet openings shall be directed or conducted to a safe location. ( c ) There shall be no sources of ignition. ( d ) Electrical wiring and equipment shall comply with paragraphs (c)(1)(ix) ( a ) and ( b ) of this section except that the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(ix)( b ) of this section shall apply to all electrical wiring and equipment in the separate building. ( e ) Heating, if provided, shall be by steam, hot water, or other indirect means. (iii) Special rooms. ( a ) Floors, walls, and ceilings shall have a fire resistance rating of at least 2 hours. Walls or partitions shall be continuous from floor to ceiling and shall be securely anchored. At least one wall shall be an exterior wall. Openings to other parts of the building shall not be permitted. Windows and doors shall be in exterior walls and doors shall be located in such a manner that they will be accessible in an emergency. Windows shall be of shatterproof glass or plastic in metal frames. ( b ) Ventilation shall be as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)( b ) of this section. ( c ) Explosion venting shall be provided in exterior walls or roof only. The venting area shall be equal to not less than 1 square foot per 30 cubic feet of room volume and may consist of any one or any combination of the following: Walls of light noncombustible material; lightly fastened hatch covers; lightly fastened swinging doors opening outward in exterior walls; lightly fastened walls or roofs designed to relieve at a maximum pressure of 25 pounds per square foot. ( d ) There shall be