§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(ii) Gas masks capable of absorbing chlorine shall be supplied, conveniently placed, and regularly inspected, and workers who may be exposed to chlorine gas shall be instructed in their use.
(iii) For emergency and rescue work, independent self-contained oxygen-type masks or supplied air equipment shall be provided.
(iv) At least two exits, remote from each other, shall be provided for all rooms in which chlorine is stored.
(v) Spur tracks upon which tank cars containing chlorine and caustic are spotted and connected to pipelines shall be protected by means of a derail in front of the cars.
(vi) All chlorine, caustic, and acid lines shall be marked for positive identification, in accordance with American National Standard A13.1—1967.
(4) Bagged or drummed chemicals. Bagged or drummed chemicals require efficient handling to prevent damage and spillage. Certain oxidizing chemicals used in bleaching pulp and also in some sanitizing work require added precautions for safety in storage and handling. In storage, these chemicals must be isolated from combustible materials and other chemicals with which they will react such as acids. They must also be kept dry, clean and uncontaminated.
(i) Mechanical pulp process —(1) Pulp grinders. (i) Water wheels directly connected to pulp grinders shall be provided with speed governors limiting the peripheral speed of the grinder to that recommended by the manufacturer.
(ii) Doors of pocket grinders shall be arranged so as to keep them from closing accidentally.
(2) Butting saws. Hood guards shall be provided on butting saws, in accordance with American National Standard O1.1—1954 (reaffirmed 1961).
(3) Floors and platforms. The requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply.
(4) Personal protection. Persons exposed to falling material shall wear eye, head, foot, and shin protection equipment, in accordance with American National Standards Z87.1—1968, Z88.2—1969, Z89.1—1969, and Z41.1—1967.
