§ 1910.307 Hazardous (classified) locations.
Note: Note to paragraph ( c )(3) of this section: The National Electrical Code, NFPA 70, contains guidelines for determining the type and design of equipment and installations that will meet this requirement. Those guidelines address electric wiring, equipment, and systems installed in hazardous (classified) locations and contain specific provisions for the following: wiring methods, wiring connections; conductor insulation, flexible cords, sealing and drainage, transformers, capacitors, switches, circuit breakers, fuses, motor controllers, receptacles, attachment plugs, meters, relays, instruments, resistors, generators, motors, lighting fixtures, storage battery charging equipment, electric cranes, electric hoists and similar equipment, utilization equipment, signaling systems, alarm systems, remote control systems, local loud speaker and communication systems, ventilation piping, live parts, lightning surge protection, and grounding.
(d) Conduits. All conduits shall be threaded and shall be made wrench-tight. Where it is impractical to make a threaded joint tight, a bonding jumper shall be utilized.
(e) Equipment in Division 2 locations. Equipment that has been approved for a Division 1 location may be installed in a Division 2 location of the same class and group. General-purpose equipment or equipment in general-purpose enclosures may be installed in Division 2 locations if the employer can demonstrate that the equipment does not constitute a source of ignition under normal operating conditions.
(f) Protection techniques. The following are acceptable protection techniques for electric and electronic equipment in hazardous (classified) locations.
(1) Explosionproof apparatus. This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Division 1 and 2 locations for which it is approved.
(2) Dust ignitionproof. This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class II, Division 1 and 2 locations for which it is approved.
(3) Dust-tight. This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class II, Division 2 and Class III locations for which it is approved.
(4) Purged and pressurized. This protection technique is permitted for equipment in any hazardous (classified) location for which it is approved.
(5) Nonincendive circuit. This protection technique is permitted for equipment in Class I, Division 2; Class II, Division 2; or Class III, Division 1or 2 locations.
