§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(vi) Each stake and chock which is used to trip loads shall be so constructed that the tripping mechanism is activated on the side opposite the release of the load.
(vii) Each tie down shall be left in place over the peak log to secure all logs until the unloading lines or other protection the employer demonstrates is equivalent has been put in place. A stake of sufficient strength to withstand the forces of shifting or moving logs, shall be considered equivalent protection provided that the logs are not loaded higher than the stake.
(viii) Each tie down shall be released only from the side on which the unloading machine operates, except as follows:
(A) When the tie down is released by a remote control device; and
(B) When the employee making the release is protected by racks, stanchions or other protection the employer demonstrates is capable of withstanding the force of the logs.
(7) Transport. The transport vehicle operator shall assure that each tie down is tight before transporting the load. While enroute, the operator shall check and tighten the tie downs whenever there is reason to believe that the tie downs have loosened or the load has shifted.
(8) Storage. Each deck shall be constructed and located so it is stable and provides each employee with enough room to safely move and work in the area.
(i) Training. (1) The employer shall provide training for each employee, including supervisors, at no cost to the employee.
(2) Frequency. Training shall be provided as follows:
(i) As soon as possible but not later than the effective date of this section for initial training for each current and new employee;
(ii) Prior to initial assignment for each new employee;
(iii) Whenever the employee is assigned new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines or vehicles; and
(iv) Whenever an employee demonstrates unsafe job performance.
(3) Content. At a minimum, training shall consist of the following elements:
(i) Safe performance of assigned work tasks;
(ii) Safe use, operation and maintenance of tools, machines and vehicles the employee uses or operates, including emphasis on understanding and following the manufacturer's operating and maintenance instructions, warnings and precautions;
(iii) Recognition of safety and health hazards associated with the employee's specific work tasks, including the use of measures and work practices to prevent or control those hazards;
(iv) Recognition, prevention and control of other safety and health hazards in the logging industry;
