§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(7) Signaling and signal equipment. (i) Hand signals or audible contact, such as but not limited to, whistles, horns, or radios, shall be utilized whenever noise, distance, restricted visibility, or other factors prevent clear understanding of normal voice communications between employees.
(ii) Engine noise, such as from a chain saw, is not an acceptable means of signaling. Other locally and regionally recognized signals may be used.
(iii) Only a designated person shall give signals, except in an emergency.
(8) Overhead electric lines. (i) Logging operations near overhead electric lines shall be done in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.333(c)(3).
(ii) The employer shall notify the power company immediately if a felled tree makes contact with any power line. Each employee shall remain clear of the area until the power company advises that there are no electrical hazards.
(9) Flammable and combustible liquids. (i) Flammable and combustible liquids shall be stored, handled, transported, and used in accordance with the requirements of subpart H of part 1910.
(ii) Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be transported in the driver compartment or in any passenger-occupied area of a machine or vehicle.
(iii) Each machine, vehicle, and portable powered tool shall be shut off during fueling. Diesel-powered machines and vehicles may be fueled while they are at idle, provided that continued operation is intended and that the employer follows safe fueling and operating procedures.
(iv) Flammable and combustible liquids, including chain-saw and diesel fuel, may be used to start a fire, provided the employer assures that in the particular situation its use does not create a hazard for an employee.
(10) Explosives and blasting agents. (i) Explosives and blasting agents shall be stored, handled, transported, and used in accordance with the requirements of subpart H of part 1910.
(ii) Only a designated person shall handle or use explosives and blasting agents.
(iii) Explosives and blasting agents shall not be transported in the driver compartment or in any passenger-occupied area of a machine or vehicle.
