§ 1910.402 Definitions.
§ 1910.402 Definitions. As used in this standard, the listed terms are defined as follows: Acfm: Actual cubic feet per minute. ASME Code or equivalent: ASME (American Society of Mechanical Engineers) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, or an equivalent code which the employer can demonstrate to be equally effective. ATA: Atmosphere absolute. Bell: An enclosed compartment, pressurized (closed bell) or unpressurized (open bell), which allows the diver to be transported to and from the underwater work area and which may be used as a temporary refuge during diving operations. Bottom time: The total elasped time measured in minutes from the time when the diver leaves the surface in descent to the time that the diver begins ascent. Bursting pressure: The pressure at which a pressure containment device would fail structurally. Cylinder: A pressure vessel for the storage of gases. Decompression chamber: A pressure vessel for human occupancy such as a surface decompression chamber, closed bell, or deep diving system used to decompress divers and to treat decompression sickness. Decompression sickness: A condition with a variety of symptoms which may result from gas or bubbles in the tissues of divers after pressure reduction. Decompression table: A profile or set of profiles of depth-time relationships for ascent rates and breathing mixtures to be followed after a specific depth-time exposure or exposures. Dive-guiding operations means leading groups of sports divers, who use an open-circuit, semi-closed-circuit, or closed-circuit self-contained underwater breathing apparatus, to local undersea diving locations for recreational purposes. Dive location: A surface or vessel from which a diving operation is conducted. Dive-location reserve breathing gas: A supply system of air or mixed-gas (as appropriate) at the dive location which is independent of the primary supply system and sufficient to support divers during the planned decompression. Dive team: Divers and support employees involved in a diving operation, including the designated person-in-charge. Diver: An employee working in water using underwater apparatus which supplies compressed breathing gas at the ambient pressure. Diver-carried reserve breathing gas: A diver-carried supply of air or mixed gas (as appropriate) sufficient under standard operating conditions to allow the diver to reach the surface, or another source of breathing gas, or to be reached by a standby diver. Diving mode: A type of diving requiring specific equipment, procedures and techniques