§ 1910.1018 Inorganic arsenic.
(o) Employee information and training —(1) Training program. (i) The employer shall train each employee who is subject to exposure to inorganic arsenic above the action level without regard to respirator use, or for whom there is the possibility of skin or eye irritation from inorganic arsenic, in accordance with the requirements of this section. The employer shall institute a training program and ensure employee participation in the program.
(ii) The training program shall be provided by October 1, 1978, for employees covered by this provision, at the time of initial assignment for those subsequently covered by this provision, and at least annually for other covered employees thereafter; and the employer shall assure that each employee is informed of the following:
(A) The information contained in appendix A;
(B) The quantity, location, manner of use, storage, sources of exposure, and the specific nature of operations which could result in exposure to inorganic arsenic as well as any necessary protective steps;
(C) The purpose, proper use, and limitation of respirators;
(D) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program as required by paragraph (n) of this section;
(E) The engineering controls and work practices associated with the employee's job assignment; and
(F) A review of this standard.
(2) Access to training materials. (i) The employer shall make readily available to all affected employees a copy of this standard and its appendices.
(ii) The employer shall provide; upon request, all materials relating to the employee information and training program to the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(p) Communication of hazards —(1) Hazard communication—General. (i) Chemical manufacturers, importers, distributors and employers shall comply with all requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200) for inorganic arsenic.
(ii) In classifying the hazards of inorganic arsenic at least the following hazards are to be addressed: Cancer; liver effects; skin effects; respiratory irritation; nervous system effects; and acute toxicity effects.
(iii) Employers shall include inorganic arsenic in the hazard communication program established to comply with the HCS (§ 1910.1200). Employers shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of inorganic arsenic and to safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the requirements of HCS and paragraph (o) of this section.
