§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(iii) Smoking, matches, open flames, spark producing devices, and firearms are prohibited inside of or within 50 feet of any warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents. Combustible materials shall not be stored within 50 feet of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents.
(iv) The interior of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents shall be kept clean and free from debris and empty containers. Spilled materials shall be cleaned up promptly and safely removed. Combustible materials, flammable liquids, corrosive acids, chlorates, or nitrates shall not be stored in any warehouse used for blasting agents unless separated therefrom by a fire resistive separation of not less than 1 hour resistance. The provisions of this subdivision shall not prohibit the storage of blasting agents together with nonexplosive blasting supplies.
(v) Piles of ammonium nitrate and warehouses containing ammonium nitrate shall be adequately separated from readily combustible fuels.
(vi) Caked oxidizers, either in bags or in bulk, shall not be loosened by blasting.
(vii) Every warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents shall be under the supervision of a competent person.
(6) Transportation of packaged blasting agents. (i) When blasting agents are transported in the same vehicle with explosives, all of the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section shall be complied with.
(ii) Vehicles transporting blasting agents shall only be driven by and be in charge of a driver in possession of a valid motor vehicle operator's license. Such a person shall also be familiar with the State's vehicle and traffic laws.
(iii) No matches, firearms, acids, or other corrosive liquids shall be carried in the bed or body of any vehicle containing blasting agents.
(iv) No person shall be permitted to ride upon, drive, load, or unload a vehicle containing blasting agents while smoking or under the influence of intoxicants, narcotics, or other dangerous drugs.
(v) [Reserved]
(vi) Vehicles transporting blasting agents shall be in safe operating condition at all times.
(7) Use of blasting agents. Persons using blasting agents shall comply with all of the applicable provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
