§ 1910.402 Definitions.
sufficient under standard operating conditions to allow the diver to reach the surface, or another source of breathing gas, or to be reached by a standby diver. Diving mode: A type of diving requiring specific equipment, procedures and techniques (SCUBA, surface-supplied air, or mixed gas). Fsw: Feet of seawater (or equivalent static pressure head). Heavy gear: Diver-worn deep-sea dress including helmet, breastplate, dry suit, and weighted shoes. Hyperbaric conditions: Pressure conditions in excess of surface pressure. Inwater stage: A suspended underwater platform which supports a diver in the water. Liveboating: The practice of supporting a surfaced-supplied air or mixed gas diver from a vessel which is underway. Mixed-gas diving: A diving mode in which the diver is supplied in the water with a breathing gas other than air. No-decompression limits: The depth-time limits of the "no-decompression limits and repetitive dive group designation table for no-decompression air dives", U.S. Navy Diving Manual or equivalent limits which the employer can demonstrate to be equally effective. Psi(g): Pounds per square inch (gauge). Recreational diving instruction means training diving students in the use of recreational diving procedures and the safe operation of diving equipment, including an open-circuit, semi-closed-circuit, or closed-circuit self-contained underwater breathing apparatus, during dives. Scientific diving means diving performed solely as a necessary part of a scientific, research, or educational activity by employees whose sole purpose for diving is to perform scientific research tasks. Scientific diving does not include performing any tasks usually associated with commercial diving such as: Placing or removing heavy objects underwater; inspection of pipelines and similar objects; construction; demolition; cutting or welding; or the use of explosives. SCUBA diving: A diving mode independent of surface supply in which the diver uses open circuit self-contained underwater breathing apparatus. Standby diver: A diver at the dive location available to assist a diver in the water. Surface-supplied air diving: A diving mode in which the diver in the water is supplied from the dive location with compressed air for breathing. Treatment table: A depth-time and breathing gas profile designed to treat decompression sickness. Umbilical: The composite hose bundle between a dive location and a diver or bell, or between a diver and a bell, which supplies the diver or bell with breathing gas, communications, power,