§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(i) The healthcare professional's written opinion for Hepatitis B vaccination shall be limited to whether Hepatitis B vaccination is indicated for an employee, and if the employee has received such vaccination.
(ii) The healthcare professional's written opinion for post-exposure evaluation and follow-up shall be limited to the following information:
(A) That the employee has been informed of the results of the evaluation; and
(B) That the employee has been told about any medical conditions resulting from exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials which require further evaluation or treatment. (iii) All other findings or diagnoses shall remain confidential and shall not be included in the written report.
(6) Medical recordkeeping. Medical records required by this standard shall be maintained in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
(g) Communication of hazards to employees —(1) Labels and signs —(i) Labels. (A) Warning labels shall be affixed to containers of regulated waste, refrigerators and freezers containing blood or other potentially infectious material; and other containers used to store, transport or ship blood or other potentially infectious materials, except as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(E), (F) and (G).
(B) Labels required by this section shall include the following legend:
EC28OC91.018
(C) These labels shall be fluorescent orange or orange-red or predominantly so, with lettering and symbols in a contrasting color.
(D) Labels shall be affixed as close as feasible to the container by string, wire, adhesive, or other method that prevents their loss or unintentional removal.
(E) Red bags or red containers may be substituted for labels.
(F) Containers of blood, blood components, or blood products that are labeled as to their contents and have been released for transfusion or other clinical use are exempted from the labeling requirements of paragraph (g).
(G) Individual containers of blood or other potentially infectious materials that are placed in a labeled container during storage, transport, shipment or disposal are exempted from the labeling requirement.
(H) Labels required for contaminated equipment shall be in accordance with this paragraph and shall also state which portions of the equipment remain contaminated.
(I) Regulated waste that has been decontaminated need not be labeled or color-coded.
