§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(C) If he or she must employ safety-related work practices that are not normally used during his or her regular job duties.
Note: Note to paragraph ( a )(2)( v )(C): The Occupational Safety and Health Administration considers tasks that are performed less often than once per year to necessitate retraining before the performance of the work practices involved.
(vi) The training required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be of the classroom or on-the-job type.
(vii) The training shall establish employee proficiency in the work practices required by this section and shall introduce the procedures necessary for compliance with this section.
(viii) The employer shall ensure that each employee has demonstrated proficiency in the work practices involved before that employee is considered as having completed the training required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( a )(2)( viii ): Though they are not required by this paragraph, employment records that indicate that an employee has successfully completed the required training are one way of keeping track of when an employee has demonstrated proficiency.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( a )(2)( viii ): For an employee with previous training, an employer may determine that that employee has demonstrated the proficiency required by this paragraph using the following process: (1) Confirm that the employee has the training required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, (2) Use an examination or interview to make an initial determination that the employee understands the relevant safety-related work practices before he or she performs any work covered by this section, and (3) Supervise the employee closely until that employee has demonstrated proficiency as required by this paragraph.
(3) Information transfer. (i) Before work begins, the host employer shall inform contract employers of:
(A) The characteristics of the host employer's installation that are related to the safety of the work to be performed and are listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(v) of this section;
Note: Note to paragraph ( a )(3)( i )(A): This paragraph requires the host employer to obtain information listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(v) of this section if it does not have this information in existing records.
