§ 1910.1051 1,3-Butadiene.
(A) The product or activity qualifying for exemption;
(B) The source of the objective data;
(C) The testing protocol, results of testing, and analysis of the material for the release of BD;
(D) A description of the operation exempted and how the data support the exemption; and
(E) Other data relevant to the operations, materials, processing, or employee exposures covered by the exemption.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for the duration of the employer's reliance upon such objective data.
(2) Exposure measurements. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of all measurements taken to monitor employee exposure to BD as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The date of measurement;
(B) The operation involving exposure to BD which is being monitored;
(C) Sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy;
(D) Number, duration, and results of samples taken;
(E) Type of protective devices worn, if any; and
(F) Name and exposure of the employees whose exposures are represented.
(G) The written corrective action and the schedule for completion of this action required by paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least 30 years in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Medical screening and surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical screening and surveillance under this section.
(ii) The record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The name of the employee;
(B) Physician's or other licensed health care professional's written opinions as described in paragraph (k)(7) of this section;
(C) A copy of the information provided to the physician or other licensed health care professional as required by paragraphs (k)(7)(ii)-(iv) of this section.
(iii) Medical screening and surveillance records shall be maintained for each employee for the duration of employment plus 30 years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
