§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(v) The disconnect switch for the power circuit shall be locked in the "ON" position when the equipment is in use; and
(vi) An effective two-way voice communication system shall be provided between the equipment operators and persons stationed within the building being serviced. The communications facility shall be operable and shall be manned at all times by persons stationed within the building whenever the platform is being used.
(f) Powered platform installations—Equipment —(1) General requirements. The following requirements apply to equipment which are part of a powered platform installation, such as platforms, stabilizing components, carriages, outriggers, davits, hoisting machines, wire ropes and electrical components.
(i) Equipment installations shall be designed by or under the direction of a registered professional engineer experienced in such design;
(ii) The design shall provide for a minimum live load of 250 pounds (113.6 kg) for each occupant of a suspended or supported platform;
(iii) Equipment that is exposed to wind when not in service shall be designed to withstand forces generated by winds of at least 100 miles per hour (44.7 m/s) at 30 feet (9.2 m) above grade; and
(iv) Equipment that is exposed to wind when in service shall be designed to withstand forces generated by winds of at least 50 miles per hour (22.4 m/s) for all elevations.
(2) Construction requirements. Bolted connections shall be self-locking or shall otherwise be secured to prevent loss of the connections by vibration.
(3) Suspension methods. Elevated building maintenance equipment shall be suspended by a carriage, outriggers, davits or an equivalent method.
(i) Carriages. Carriages used for suspension of elevated building maintenance equipment shall comply with the following:
(A) The horizontal movement of a carriage shall be controlled so as to ensure its safe movement and allow accurate positioning of the platform for vertical travel or storage;
(B) Powered carriages shall not exceed a traversing speed of 50 feet per minute (0.3 m/s);
(C) The initiation of a traversing movement for a manually propelled carriage on a smooth level surface shall not require a person to exert a horizontal force greater than 40 pounds (444.8 n);
(D) Structural stops and curbs shall be provided to prevent the traversing of the carriage beyond its designed limits of travel;
