§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( a ) [Reserved]
( b ) Where quantity stored exceeds 1,100 gallons, or provisions of subdivision (a) of this subdivision cannot be met, a minimum distance of 10 feet between buildings and nearest container of flammable liquid shall be maintained.
(iii) Spill containment. The storage area shall be graded in a manner to divert possible spills away from buildings or other exposures or shall be surrounded by a curb at least 6 inches high. When curbs are used, provisions shall be made for draining of accumulations of ground or rain water or spills of flammable liquids. Drains shall terminate at a safe location and shall be accessible to operation under fire conditions.
(iv) Security. The storage area shall be protected against tampering or trespassers where necessary and shall be kept free of weeds, debris and other combustible material not necessary to the storage.
(7) Fire control —(i) Extinguishers. Suitable fire control devices, such as small hose or portable fire extinguishers, shall be available at locations where flammable liquids are stored.
ER26MR12.057
( a ) At least one portable fire extinguisher having a rating of not less than 12-B units shall be located outside of, but not more than 10 feet from, the door opening into any room used for storage.
( b ) At least one portable fire extinguisher having a rating of not less than 12-B units must be located not less than 10 feet, nor more than 25 feet, from any Category 1, 2, or 3 flammable liquid storage area located outside of a storage room but inside a building.
(ii) Sprinklers. When sprinklers are provided, they shall be installed in accordance with § 1910.159.
(iii) Open flames and smoking. Open flames and smoking shall not be permitted in flammable liquid storage areas.
(iv) Water reactive materials. Materials which will react with water shall not be stored in the same room with flammable liquids.
(e) Industrial plants —(1) Scope —(i) Application. This paragraph shall apply to those industrial plants where:
( a ) The use of flammable liquids is incidental to the principal business, or
