§ 1910.1096 Ionizing radiation.
(2) Every employer shall maintain records in the same units used in tables in paragraph (b) of this section and appendix B to 10 CFR part 20.
(o) Disclosure to former employee of individual employee's record. (1) At the request of a former employee an employer shall furnish to the employee a report of the employee's exposure to radiation as shown in records maintained by the employer pursuant to paragraph (n)(1) of this section. Such report shall be furnished within 30 days from the time the request is made, and shall cover each calendar quarter of the individual's employment involving exposure to radiation or such lesser period as may be requested by the employee. The report shall also include the results of any calculations and analysis of radioactive material deposited in the body of the employee. The report shall be in writing and contain the following statement: "You should preserve this report for future reference."
(2) [Reserved]
(p) Nuclear Regulatory Commission licensees—NRC contractors operating NRC plants and facilities—NRC Agreement State licensees or registrants. (1) Any employer who possesses or uses source material, byproduct material, or special nuclear material, as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, under a license issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR part 20 shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this section with respect to such possession and use.
(2) NRC contractors operating NRC plants and facilities: Any employer who possesses or uses source material, byproduct material, special nuclear material, or other radiation sources under a contract with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the operation of NRC plants and facilities and in accordance with the standards, procedures, and other requirements for radiation protection established by the Commission for such contract pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq. ), shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this section with respect to such possession and use.
(3) NRC-agreement State licensees or registrants:
