§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
(p) Sanding machines. (1) Feed rolls of self-feed sanding machines shall be protected with a semicylindrical guard to prevent the hands of the operator from coming in contact with the in-running rolls at any point. The guard shall be constructed of heavy material, preferably metal, and firmly secured to the frame carrying the rolls so as to remain in adjustment for any thickness of stock. The bottom of the guard should come down to within three-eighths inch of a plane formed by the bottom or contact face of the feed roll where it touches the stock.
(2) Each drum sanding machine shall have an exhaust hood, or other guard if no exhaust system is required, so arranged as to enclose the revolving drum, except for that portion of the drum above the table, if a table is used, which may be necessary and convenient for the application of the material to be finished.
(3) Each disk sanding machine shall have the exhaust hood, or other guard if no exhaust system is required, so arranged as to enclose the revolving disk, except for that portion of the disk above the table, if a table is used, which may be necessary for the application of the material to be finished.
(4) Belt sanding machines shall be provided with guards at each nip point where the sanding belt runs on to a pulley. These guards shall effectively prevent the hands or fingers of the operator from coming in contact with the nip points. The unused run of the sanding belt shall be guarded against accidental contact.
(q) Veneer cutters and wringers. (1) Veneer slicer knives shall be guarded to prevent accidental contact with knife edge, at both front and rear.
(2) Veneer clippers shall have automatic feed or shall be provided with a guard which will make it impossible to place a finger or fingers under the knife while feeding or removing the stock.
(3) Sprockets on chain or slat-belt conveyors shall be enclosed.
(4) Where practicable, hand and footpower guillotine veneer cutters shall be provided with rods or plates or other satisfactory means, so arranged on the feeding side that the hands cannot reach the cutting edge of the knife while feeding or holding the stock in place.
