§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(vii) Materials and fabrication procedures for portable outlet headers shall comply with paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(5) of this section.
(viii) Portable outlet headers shall be provided with frames which will support the equipment securely in the correct operating position and protect them from damage during handling and operation.
(5) Manifold operation procedures. (i) Cylinder manifolds shall be installed under the supervision of someone familiar with the proper practices with reference to their construction and use.
(ii) All manifolds and parts used in methods of manifolding shall be used only for the gas or gases for which they are approved.
(iii) When acetylene cylinders are coupled, approved flash arresters shall be installed between each cylinder and the coupler block. For outdoor use only, and when the number of cylinders coupled does not exceed three, one flash arrester installed between the coupler block and regulator is acceptable.
(iv) The aggregate capacity of fuel-gas cylinders connected to a portable manifold inside a building shall not exceed 3,000 cubic feet (84 m 3 ) of gas.
(v) Acetylene and liquefied fuel-gas cylinders shall be manifolded in a vertical position.
(vi) The pressure in the gas cylinders connected to and discharged simultaneously through a common manifold shall be approximately equal.
(d) Service piping systems —(1) Materials and design. (i)(A) Piping and fittings shall comply with section 2, Industrial Gas and Air Piping Systems, of the American National Standard Code for Pressure Piping ANSI B31.1, 1967, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6, insofar as it does not conflict with paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) and (d)(1)(i)(A)( 2 ) of this section:
( 1 ) Pipe shall be at least Schedule 40 and fittings shall be at least standard weight in sizes up to and including 6-inch nominal.
( 2 ) Copper tubing shall be Types K or L in accordance with the Standard Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube, ASTM B88-66a, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
