§ 1910.184 Slings.
an opening in a handle of a metal mesh sling shaped to accept a hook, shackle or other lifting device. (See Fig. N-184-1.) Hitch is a sling configuration whereby the sling is fastened to an object or load, either directly to it or around it. Link is a single ring of a chain. Male handle (triangle) is a handle with a handle eye. Master coupling link is an alloy steel welded coupling link used as an intermediate link to join alloy steel chain to master links. (See Fig. N-184-3.) Master link or gathering ring is a forged or welded steel link used to support all members (legs) of an alloy steel chain sling or wire rope sling. (See Fig. N-184-3.) Mechanical coupling link is a nonwelded, mechanically closed steel link used to attach master links, hooks, etc., to alloy steel chain. EC27OC91.045 EC27OC91.046 EC27OC91.047 Proof load is the load applied in performance of a proof test. Proof test is a nondestructive tension test performed by the sling manufacturer or an equivalent entity to verify construction and workmanship of a sling. Rated capacity or working load limit is the maximum working load permitted by the provisions of this section. Reach is the effective length of an alloy steel chain sling measured from the top bearing surface of the upper terminal component to the bottom bearing surface of the lower terminal component. Selvage edge is the finished edge of synthetic webbing designed to prevent unraveling. Sling is an assembly which connects the load to the material handling equipment. Sling manufacturer is a person or organization that assembles sling components into their final form for sale to users. Spiral is a single transverse coil that is the basic element from which metal mesh is fabricated. (See Fig. N-184-2.) Strand laid endless sling-mechanical joint is a wire rope sling made endless from one length of rope with the ends joined by one or more metallic fittings. Strand laid grommet-hand tucked is an endless wire rope sling made from one length of strand wrapped six times around a core formed by hand tucking the ends of the strand inside the six wraps. Strand laid rope is a wire rope made with strands (usually six or eight) wrapped around a fiber core, wire strand core, or independent wire rope core (IWRC). Vertical hitch is a method of supporting a load by a single, vertical part or leg of the sling. (See Fig. N-184-4.)