§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(3) Designated personnel. Only designated personnel shall be permitted to operate a crane covered by this section.
(c) Load ratings —(1) Load ratings — where stability governs lifting performance. (i) The margin of stability for determination of load ratings, with booms of stipulated lengths at stipulated working radii for the various types of crane mountings, is established by taking a percentage of the loads which will produce a condition of tipping or balance with the boom in the least stable direction, relative to the mounting. The load ratings shall not exceed the following percentages for cranes, with the indicated types of mounting under conditions stipulated in paragraphs (c)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section.

Type of crane mounting Maximum load ratings (percent of tipping loads)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Locomotive, without outriggers:
Booms 60 feet or less 1 85
Booms over 60 feet 1 85
Locomotive, using outriggers fully extended 80
Crawler, without outriggers 75
Crawler, using outriggers fully extended 85
Truck and wheel mounted without outriggers or using outriggers fully extended 85

(ii) The following stipulations shall govern the application of the values in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for locomotive cranes:
( a ) Tipping with or without the use of outriggers occurs when half of the wheels farthest from the load leave the rail.
( b ) The crane shall be standing on track which is level within 1 percent grade.
( c ) Radius of the load is the horizontal distance from a projection of the axis of rotation to the rail support surface, before loading, to the center of vertical hoist line or tackle with load applied.
( d ) Tipping loads from which ratings are determined shall be applied under static conditions only, i.e., without dynamic effect of hoisting, lowering, or swinging.
( e ) The weight of all auxiliary handling devices such as hoist blocks, hooks, and slings shall be considered a part of the load rating.
