§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(9) Gas regulating and mixing equipment. (i) Approved automatic pressure reducing equipment shall be installed in a secure manner between the fuel supply container and gas-air mixer for the purpose of reducing the pressure of the fuel delivered to the gas-air mixer.
(ii) An approved automatic shutoff valve shall be provided in the fuel system at some point ahead of the inlet of the gas-air mixer, designed to prevent flow of fuel to the mixer when the ignition is off and the engine is not running. In the case of industrial trucks and engines operating in buildings other than those used exclusively to house engines, the automatic shutoff valve shall be designed to operate if the engine should stop. Atmospheric type regulators (zero governors) shall be considered adequate as an automatic shutoff valve only in cases of outdoor operation such as farm tractors, construction equipment, irrigation pump engines, and other outdoor stationary engine installations.
(iii) The source of the air for combustion shall be completely isolated from the passenger compartment, ventilating system, or air-conditioning system.
(10) [Reserved]
(11) Stationary engines in buildings. Stationary engines and gas turbines installed in buildings, including portable engines used instead of or to supplement stationary engines, shall comply with the Standard for the Institution and Use of Stationary Combustion Engines and Gas Turbines, NFPA 37-1970, and the appropriate provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(12) Portable engines in buildings. (i) Portable engines may be used in buildings only for emergency use, except as provided by subparagraph (11) of this paragraph.
(ii) Exhaust gases shall be discharged to outside the building or to an area where they will not constitute a hazard.
(iii) Provision shall be made to supply sufficient air for combustion and cooling.
(iv) An approved automatic shutoff valve shall be provided in the fuel system ahead of the engine, designed to prevent flow of fuel to the engine when the ignition is off or if the engine should stop.
(v) The capacity of LP-Gas containers used with such engines shall comply with the applicable occupancy provision of paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(13) Industrial trucks inside buildings. (i) LP-Gas-fueled industrial trucks are permitted to be used in buildings and structures.
