§ 1910.104 Oxygen.
(iv) Grounding. If electric heaters are used to provide the primary source of heat, the vaporizing system shall be electrically grounded.
(8) Equipment assembly and installation —(i) Cleaning. Equipment making up a bulk oxygen system shall be cleaned in order to remove oil, grease or other readily oxidizable materials before placing the system in service.
(ii) Joints. Joints in piping and tubing may be made by welding or by use of flanged, threaded, slip, or compression fittings. Gaskets or thread sealants shall be suitable for oxygen service.
(iii) Accessories. Valves, gages, regulators, and other accessories shall be suitable for oxygen service.
(iv) Installation. Installation of bulk oxygen systems shall be supervised by personnel familiar with proper practices with reference to their construction and use.
(v) Testing. After installation all field erected piping shall be tested and proved gas tight at maximum operating pressure. Any medium used for testing shall be oil free and nonflammable.
(vi) Security. Storage containers, piping, valves, regulating equipment, and other accessories shall be protected against physical damage and against tampering.
(vii) Venting. Any enclosure containing oxygen control or operating equipment shall be adequately vented.
(viii) Placarding. The bulk oxygen storage location shall be permanently placarded to indicate: "OXYGEN—NO SMOKING—NO OPEN FLAMES", or an equivalent warning.
(ix) Electrical wiring. Bulk oxygen installations are not hazardous locations as defined and covered in subpart S of this part. Therefore, general purpose or weatherproof types of electrical wiring and equipment are acceptable depending upon whether the installation is indoors or outdoors. Such equipment shall be installed in accordance with the applicable provisions of subpart S of this part.
(9) Operating instructions. For installations which require any operation of equipment by the user, legible instructions shall be maintained at operating locations.
(10) Maintenance. The equipment and functioning of each charged bulk oxygen system shall be maintained in a safe operating condition in accordance with the requirements of this section. Wood and long dry grass shall be cut back within 15 feet of any bulk oxygen storage container.