§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Beaters. (i) Beater rolls shall be provided with covers.
(ii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter the beaters, all control devices shall be locked or tagged out, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(iii) When beaters are fed from the floor above, the chute opening, if less than 42 inches (1.06 m) from the floor, shall be provided with a guardrail system that meets the requirements in subpart D of this part, or other equivalent enclosures. Openings for manual feeding shall be sufficient only for entry of stock, and shall be provided with at least two permanently secured crossrails or other fall protection system that meet the requirements in subpart D.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Floors around beaters shall be provided with sufficient drainage to remove wastes.
(5) Pulpers. (i) All pulpers having the top or any other opening of a vessel less than 42 inches (107 cm) from the floor or work platform shall have such openings guarded by guardrail systems that meet the requirements in subpart D of this part, or other equivalent enclosures. For manual changing, openings shall be sufficient only to permit the entry of stock, and shall be provided with at least two permanently secured crossrails, or other fall protection systems that meet the requirements in subpart D.
(ii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter the pulpers, they shall be equipped with safety belt and lifeline, and one person shall be stationed outside at a position to observe and assist in case of emergency.
(iii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter pulpers, all steam, water, or other control devices shall be locked or tagged out. Blank flanging and tagging of pipe lines is acceptable in place of closed and locked or tagged valves. Blank flanging of steam and water lines shall be acceptable in place of valve locks.
(6) Stock chests. (i) All control devices shall be locked or tagged out when persons enter stock chests, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(ii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter stock chests, they shall be provided with a low-voltage extension light.
