§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( q )(2)( iv ): Appendix C to this section contains guidelines for protecting employees from hazardous differences in electric potential as required by this paragraph.
(v) Reel-handling equipment, including pulling and tensioning devices, shall be in safe operating condition and shall be leveled and aligned.
(vi) The employer shall ensure that employees do not exceed load ratings of stringing lines, pulling lines, conductor grips, load-bearing hardware and accessories, rigging, and hoists.
(vii) The employer shall repair or replace defective pulling lines and accessories.
(viii) The employer shall ensure that employees do not use conductor grips on wire rope unless the manufacturer specifically designed the grip for this application.
(ix) The employer shall ensure that employees maintain reliable communications, through two-way radios or other equivalent means, between the reel tender and the pulling-rig operator.
(x) Employees may operate the pulling rig only when it is safe to do so.
Note: Note to paragraph ( q )(2)( x ): Examples of unsafe conditions include: employees in locations prohibited by paragraph (q)(2)(xi) of this section, conductor and pulling line hang-ups, and slipping of the conductor grip.
(xi) While a power-driven device is pulling the conductor or pulling line and the conductor or pulling line is in motion, the employer shall ensure that employees are not directly under overhead operations or on the crossarm, except as necessary for the employees to guide the stringing sock or board over or through the stringing sheave.
(3) Live-line barehand work. In addition to other applicable provisions contained in this section, the following requirements apply to live-line barehand work:
(i) Before an employee uses or supervises the use of the live-line barehand technique on energized circuits, the employer shall ensure that the employee completes training conforming to paragraph (a)(2) of this section in the technique and in the safety requirements of paragraph (q)(3) of this section.
(ii) Before any employee uses the live-line barehand technique on energized high-voltage conductors or parts, the employer shall ascertain the following information in addition to information about other existing conditions required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section:
(A) The nominal voltage rating of the circuit on which employees will perform the work,
