§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(iii) Explosives shall not be transferred from one vehicle to another within the confines of any jurisdiction (city, county, State, or other area) without informing the fire and police departments thereof. In the event of breakdown or collision the local fire and police departments shall be promptly notified to help safeguard such emergencies. Explosives shall be transferred from the disabled vehicle to another only, when proper and qualified supervision is provided.
(iv) Blasting caps or electric blasting caps shall not be transported over the highways on the same vehicles with other explosives, unless packaged, segregated, and transported in accordance with the Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 177-180).
(2) Transportation vehicles. (i) Vehicles used for transporting explosives shall be strong enough to carry the load without difficulty and be in good mechanical condition. If vehicles do not have a closed body, the body shall be covered with a flameproof and moistureproof tarpaulin or other effective protection against moisture and sparks. All vehicles used for the transportation of explosives shall have tight floors and any exposed spark-producing metal on the inside of the body shall be covered with wood or other nonsparking materials to prevent contact with packages of explosives. Packages of explosives shall not be loaded above the sides of an open-body vehicle.
(ii) Every vehicle used for transporting explosives and oxidizing materials listed in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)( a ) of this section shall be marked as follows:
( a ) Exterior markings or placards required on applicable vehicles shall be as follows for the various classes of commodities:

Commodity Type of marking or placard
------------------------------------
Explosives, Class A, any quantity or a combination of Class A and Class B explosives Explosives A (Red letters on white background).
Explosives, Class B, and quantity Explosives B (Red letters on white background).
Oxidizing material (blasting agents, ammonium nitrate, etc.), 1,000 pounds or more gross weight Oxidizers (Yellow letters on black background).

( b ) [Reserved]
