§ 1910.68 Manlifts.
(iv) Angle of step. The surface of the step shall make approximately a right angle with the "up" and "down" run of the belt, and shall travel in the approximate horizontal position with the "up" and "down" run of the belt.
(v) Surfaces. The upper or working surfaces of the step shall be of a material having inherent nonslip characteristics (coefficient of friction not less than 0.5) or shall be covered completely by a nonslip tread securely fastened to it.
(vi) Strength of step supports. When subjected to a load of 400 pounds applied at the approximate center of the step, step frames, or supports and their guides shall be of adequate strength to:
( a ) Prevent the disengagement of any step roller.
( b ) Prevent any appreciable misalinement.
( c ) Prevent any visible deformation of the steps or its support.
(vii) Prohibition of steps without handholds. No steps shall be provided unless there is a corresponding handhold above or below it meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If a step is removed for repairs or permanently, the handholds immediately above and below it shall be removed before the lift is again placed in service.
(4) Handholds —(i) Location. Handholds attached to the belt shall be provided and installed so that they are not less than 4 feet nor more than 4 feet 8 inches above the step tread. These shall be so located as to be available on the both "up" and "down" run of the belt.
(ii) Size. The grab surface of the handhold shall be not less than 4 1/2 inches in width, not less than 3 inches in depth, and shall provide 2 inches of clearance from the belt. Fastenings for handholds shall be located not less than 1 inch from the edge of the belt.
(iii) Strength. The handhold shall be capable of withstanding, without damage, a load of 300 pounds applied parallel to the run of the belt.
(iv) Prohibition of handhold without steps. No handhold shall be provided without a corresponding step. If a handhold is removed permanently or temporarily, the corresponding step and handhold for the opposite direction of travel shall also be removed before the lift is again placed in service.
(v) Type. All handholds shall be of the closed type.
