§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
or platforms, or by location, to prevent injury. Health care provider. A health care practitioner operating with the scope of his/her license, certificate, registration or legally authorized practice. Landing. Any place where logs are laid after being yarded, and before transport from the work site. Limbing. To cut branches off felled trees. Lodged tree (hung tree). A tree leaning against another tree or object which prevents it from falling to the ground. Log. A segment sawed or split from a felled tree, such as, but not limited to, a section, bolt, or tree length. Logging operations. Operations associated with felling and moving trees and logs from the stump to the point of delivery, such as, but not limited to, marking danger trees and trees/logs to be cut to length, felling, limbing, bucking, debarking, chipping, yarding, loading, unloading, storing, and transporting machines, equipment and personnel to, from and between logging sites. Machine. A piece of stationary or mobile equipment having a self-contained powerplant, that is operated off-road and used for the movement of material. Machines include, but are not limited to, tractors, skidders, front-end loaders, scrapers, graders, bulldozers, swing yarders, log stackers, log loaders, and mechanical felling devices, such as tree shears and feller-bunchers. Machines do not include airplanes or aircraft (e.g., helicopters). Rated capacity. The maximum load a system, vehicle, machine or piece of equipment was designed by the manufacturer to handle. Root wad. The ball of a tree root and dirt that is pulled from the ground when a tree is uprooted. Serviceable condition. A state or ability of a tool, machine, vehicle or other device to operate as it was intended by the manufacturer to operate. Skidding. The yarding of trees or logs by pulling or towing them across the ground. Slope (grade). The increase or decrease in altitude over a horizontal distance expressed as a percentage. For example, a change of altitude of 20 feet (6 m) over a horizontal distance of 100 feet (30 m) is expressed as a 20 percent slope. Snag. Any standing dead tree or portion thereof. Spring pole. A tree, segment of a tree, limb, or sapling which is under stress or tension due to the pressure or