§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(ii) Deterioration or leakage in lines, tanks, valves, drain pumps, and other parts of air or hydraulic systems. Daily.
(iii) Hooks with deformation or cracks. Visual inspection daily; monthly inspection with a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and the serial number, or other identifier, of the hook inspected. For hooks with cracks or having more than 15 percent in excess of normal throat opening or more than 10 degrees twist from the plane of the unbent hook refer to paragraph (l)(3)(iii)( a ) of this section.
(iv) Hoist chains, including end connections, for excessive wear, twist, distorted links interfering with proper function, or stretch beyond manufacturer's recommendations. Visual inspection daily; monthly inspection with a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and an identifier of the chain which was inspected.
(v) [Reserved]
(vi) All functional operating mechanisms for excessive wear of components.
(vii) Rope reeving for noncompliance with manufacturer's recommendations.
(3) Periodic inspection. Complete inspections of the crane shall be performed at intervals as generally defined in paragraph (j)(1)(ii)( b ) of this section, depending upon its activity, severity of service, and environment, or as specifically indicated below. These inspections shall include the requirements of paragraph (j)(2) of this section and in addition, the following items. Any deficiencies such as listed shall be carefully examined and determination made as to whether they constitute a safety hazard:
(i) Deformed, cracked, or corroded members.
(ii) Loose bolts or rivets.
(iii) Cracked or worn sheaves and drums.
(iv) Worn, cracked or distorted parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, rollers, locking and clamping devices.
(v) Excessive wear on brake system parts, linings, pawls, and ratchets.
(vi) Load, wind, and other indicators over their full range, for any significant inaccuracies.
(vii) Gasoline, diesel, electric, or other powerplants for improper performance or noncompliance with applicable safety requirements.
(viii) Excessive wear of chain drive sprockets and excessive chain stretch.
(ix) [Reserved]
