§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(I) Regulated waste that has been decontaminated need not be labeled or color-coded.
(ii) Signs. (A) The employer shall post signs at the entrance to work areas specified in paragraph (e), HIV and HBV Research Laboratory and Production Facilities, which shall bear the following legend:
EC28OC91.019
(B) These signs shall be fluorescent orange-red or predominantly so, with lettering and symbols in a contrasting color.
(2) Information and Training. (i) The employer shall train each employee with occupational exposure in accordance with the requirements of this section. Such training must be provided at no cost to the employee and during working hours. The employer shall institute a training program and ensure employee participation in the program.
(ii) Training shall be provided as follows:
(A) At the time of initial assignment to tasks where occupational exposure may take place;
(B) At least annually thereafter.
(iii) [Reserved]
(iv) Annual training for all employees shall be provided within one year of their previous training.
(v) Employers shall provide additional training when changes such as modification of tasks or procedures or institution of new tasks or procedures affect the employee's occupational exposure. The additional training may be limited to addressing the new exposures created.
(vi) Material appropriate in content and vocabulary to educational level, literacy, and language of employees shall be used.
(vii) The training program shall contain at a minimum the following elements:
(A) An accessible copy of the regulatory text of this standard and an explanation of its contents;
(B) A general explanation of the epidemiology and symptoms of bloodborne diseases;
(C) An explanation of the modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens;
(D) An explanation of the employer's exposure control plan and the means by which the employee can obtain a copy of the written plan;
(E) An explanation of the appropriate methods for recognizing tasks and other activities that may involve exposure to blood and other potentially infectious materials;
(F) An explanation of the use and limitations of methods that will prevent or reduce exposure including appropriate engineering controls, work practices, and personal protective equipment;
(G) Information on the types, proper use, location, removal, handling, decontamination and disposal of personal protective equipment;
(H) An explanation of the basis for selection of personal protective equipment;
