§ 1910.218 Forging machines.
(e) Gravity hammers —(1) Air-lift hammers. (i) Air-lift hammers shall have a safety cylinder head as required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(ii) Air-lift hammers shall have an air shutoff valve as required in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(iii) Air-lift hammers shall be provided with two drain cocks: one on main head cylinder, and one on clamp cylinder.
(iv) Air piping shall conform to the specifications of the ANSI B31.1.0-1967, Power Piping with Addenda issued before April 28, 1971, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(2) Board drophammers. (i) A suitable enclosure shall be provided to prevent damaged or detached boards from falling. The board enclosure shall be securely fastened to the hammer.
(ii) All major assemblies and fittings which can loosen and fall shall be properly secured in place.
(f) Forging presses —(1) Mechanical forging presses. When dies are being changed or maintenance is being performed on the press, the following shall be accomplished:
(i) The power to the press shall be locked out.
(ii) The flywheel shall be at rest.
(iii) The ram shall be blocked with a material the strength of which shall meet or exceed the specifications or dimensions shown in Table O-11.
(2) Hydraulic forging presses. When dies are being changed or maintenance is being performed on the press, the following shall be accomplished:
(i) The hydraulic pumps and power apparatus shall be locked out.
(ii) The ram shall be blocked with a material the strength of which shall meet or exceed the specifications or dimensions shown in Table O-11.
(g) Trimming presses —(1) Hot trimming presses. The requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall also apply to hot trimming presses.
(2) Cold trimming presses. Cold trimming presses shall be safeguarded in accordance with § 1910.217(c).
(h) Upsetters —(1) General requirements. All upsetters shall be installed so that they remain on their supporting foundations.
(2) Lockouts. Upsetters shall be provided with a means for locking out the power at its entry point to the machine and rendering its cycling controls inoperable.
