§ 1910.141 Sanitation.
§ 1910.141 Sanitation.
(a) General —(1) Scope. This section applies to permanent places of employment.
(2) Definitions applicable to this section.
Nonwater carriage toilet facility, means a toilet facility not connected to a sewer.
Number of employees means, unless otherwise specified, the maximum number of employees present at any one time on a regular shift.
Personal service room, means a room used for activities not directly connected with the production or service function performed by the establishment. Such activities include, but are not limited to, first-aid, medical services, dressing, showering, toilet use, washing, and eating.
Potable water means water that meets the standards for drinking purposes of the State or local authority having jurisdiction, or water that meets the quality standards prescribed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's National Primary Drinking Water Regulations (40 CFR 141).
Toilet facility, means a fixture maintained within a toilet room for the purpose of defecation or urination, or both.
Toilet room, means a room maintained within or on the premises of any place of employment, containing toilet facilities for use by employees.
Toxic material means a material in concentration or amount which exceeds the applicable limit established by a standard, such as §§ 1910.1000 and 1910.1001 or, in the absence of an applicable standard, which is of such toxicity so as to constitute a recognized hazard that is causing or is likely to cause death or serious physical harm.
Urinal means a toilet facility maintained within a toilet room for the sole purpose of urination.
Water closet means a toilet facility maintained within a toilet room for the purpose of both defecation and urination and which is flushed with water.
Wet process means any process or operation in a workroom which normally results in surfaces upon which employees may walk or stand becoming wet.
(3) Housekeeping. (i) All places of employment shall be kept clean to the extent that the nature of the work allows.
(ii) The floor of every workroom shall be maintained, so far as practicable, in a dry condition. Where wet processes are used, drainage shall be maintained and false floors, platforms, mats, or other dry standing places shall be provided, where practicable, or appropriate waterproof footgear shall be provided.
(iii) To facilitate cleaning, every floor, working place, and passageway shall be kept free from protruding nails, splinters, loose boards, and unnecessary holes and openings.
