§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(ii) Hose and hose connections subject to cylinder pressure shall comply with paragraph (e)(5) of this section. Hose shall have a minimum bursting pressure of 1,000 psig (6.8 MPa).
(iii) The assembled manifold including leads shall be tested and proven gas-tight at a pressure of 300 psig (2.04 MPa). The fluid used for testing oxygen manifolds shall be oil-free and not combustible.
(iv) The location of manifolds shall comply with paragraphs (c)(2)(ii), (c)(2)(iii), (c)(2)(iv), and (c)(2)(v) of this section.
(v) The following sign shall be conspicuously posted at each manifold:
(4) Portable outlet headers. (i) Portable outlet headers shall not be used indoors except for temporary service where the conditions preclude a direct supply from outlets located on the service piping system.
(ii) Each outlet on the service piping from which oxygen or fuel-gas is withdrawn to supply a portable outlet header shall be equipped with a readily accessible shutoff valve.
(iii) Hose and hose connections used for connecting the portable outlet header to the service piping shall comply with paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
(iv) Master shutoff valves for both oxygen and fuel-gas shall be provided at the entry end of the portable outlet header.
(v) Portable outlet headers for fuel-gas service shall be provided with an approved hydraulic back-pressure valve installed at the inlet and preceding the service outlets, unless an approved pressure-reducing regulator, an approved back-flow check valve, or an approved hydraulic back-pressure valve is installed at each outlet. Outlets provided on headers for oxygen service may be fitted for use with pressure-reducing regulators or for direct hose connection.
(vi) Each service outlet on portable outlet headers shall be provided with a valve assembly that includes a detachable outlet seal cap, chained or otherwise attached to the body of the valve.
(vii) Materials and fabrication procedures for portable outlet headers shall comply with paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(5) of this section.
