§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
( 3 ) Flash-back protection shall be provided by an approved device that will prevent flame from passing into the fuel-gas system.
( 4 ) Back-pressure protection shall be provided by an approved pressure-relief device set at a pressure not greater than the pressure rating of the backflow or the flashback protection device, whichever is lower. The pressure-relief device shall be located on the downstream side of the backflow and flashback protection devices. The vent from the pressure-relief device shall be at least as large as the relief device inlet and shall be installed without low points that may collect moisture. If low points are unavoidable, drip pots with drains closed with screw plugs or caps shall be installed at the low points. The vent terminus shall not endanger personnel or property through gas discharge; shall be located away from ignition sources; and shall terminate in a hood or bend.
(iii) If pipeline protective equipment incorporates a liquid, the liquid level shall be maintained, and a suitable antifreeze may be used to prevent freezing.
(iv) Fuel gas for use with equipment not requiring oxygen shall be withdrawn upstream of the piping protective devices.
(4) Station outlet protective equipment. (i) A check valve, pressure regulator, hydraulic seal, or combination of these devices shall be provided at each station outlet, including those on portable headers, to prevent backflow, as shown in Figures Q-1, Q-2, and Q-3 and designated as S F and S O .
(ii) When approved pipeline protective equipment (designated P F ) is located at the station outlet as in Figure Q-3, no additional check valve, pressure regulator, or hydraulic seal is required.
(iii) A shutoff valve (designated V F and V O ) shall be installed at each station outlet and shall be located on the upstream side of other station outlet equipment.
(iv) If the station outlet is equipped with a detachable regulator, the outlet shall terminate in a union connection that complies with the Regulator Connection Standards, 1958, Compressed Gas Association, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(v) If the station outlet is connected directly to a hose, the outlet shall terminate in a union connection complying with the Standard Hose Connection Specifications, 1957, Compressed Gas Association, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
