§ 1910.1043 Cotton dust.
(iv) Based upon the questionnaire results, each employee shall be graded according to Schilling's byssinosis classification system.
(3) Periodic examinations. (i) The employer shall provide at least annual medical surveillance for all employees exposed to cotton dust above the action level in yarn manufacturing, slashing and weaving, cotton washing and waste house operations. The employer shall provide medical surveillance at least every two years for all employees exposed to cotton dust at or below the action level, for all employees exposed to cotton dust from washed cotton (except from washed cotton defined in paragraph (n)(3) of this section), and for all employees exposed to cotton dust in cottonseed processing and waste processing operations. Periodic medical surveillance shall include at least an update of the medical history, standardized questionnaire (App. B-111), Schilling byssinosis grade, and the pulmonary function measurements in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section.
(ii) Medical surveillance as required in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section shall be provided every six months for all employees in the following categories:
(A) An FEV 1 greater than the LLN, but with an FEV 1 decrement of 5 percent or 200 ml. on a first working day;
(B) An FEV 1 of less than the LLN; or
(C) Where, in the opinion of the physician, any significant change in questionnaire findings, pulmonary function results, or other diagnostic tests have occurred.
(iii) An employee whose FEV 1 is less than 60 percent of the predicted value shall be referred to a physician for a detailed pulmonary examination.
(iv) A comparison shall be made between the current examination results and those of previous examinations and a determination made by the physician as to whether there has been a significant change.
(4) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examination physician:
(i) A copy of this regulation and its Appendices:
(ii) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposure;
(iii) The employee's exposure level or anticipated exposure level;
(iv) A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used; and
(v) Information from previous medical examinations of the affected employee which is not readily available to the examining physician.
