§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(xiii) The discharge from any safety relief device shall not terminate in or beneath any building, except relief devices covered by paragraphs (b)(6)(i) ( a ) through ( e ) of this section, or paragraphs (c) (4)(i) or (5) of this section.
(xiv) Container safety relief devices and regulator relief vents shall be located not less than five (5) feet in any direction from air openings into sealed combustion system appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes.
(11) Vaporizer and housing. (i) Indirect fired vaporizers utilizing steam, water, or other heating medium shall be constructed and installed as follows:
( a ) Vaporizers shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) (i)-(iii) of this section and shall be permanently marked as follows:
( 1 ) With the code marking signifying the specifications to which the vaporizer is constructed.
( 2 ) With the allowable working pressure and temperature for which the vaporizer is designed.
( 3 ) With the sum of the outside surface area and the inside heat exchange surface area expressed in square feet.
( 4 ) With the name or symbol of the manufacturer.
( b ) Vaporizers having an inside diameter of 6 inches or less exempted by the ASME Unfired Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code—1968 shall have a design pressure not less than 250 p.s.i.g. and need not be permanently marked.
( c ) Heating or cooling coils shall not be installed inside a storage container.
( d ) Vaporizers may be installed in buildings, rooms, sheds, or lean-tos used exclusively for gas manufacturing or distribution, or in other structures of light, noncombustible construction or equivalent, well ventilated near the floor line and roof.
When vaporizing and/or mixing equipment is located in a structure or building not used exclusively for gas manufacturing or distribution, either attached to or within such a building, such structure or room shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a wall designed to withstand a static pressure of at least 100 pounds per square foot. This wall shall have no openings or pipe or conduit passing through it. Such structure or room shall be provided with adequate ventilation and shall have a roof or at least one exterior wall of lightweight construction.
