§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( c ) The bottom of the skids shall not be less than 2 inches or more than 12 inches below the outside bottom of the container shell.
( d ) Flanges, nozzles, valves, fittings, and the like, having communication with the interior of the container, shall be protected against physical damage.
( e ) When not permanently located on fire-resisting foundations, piping connections shall be sufficiently flexible to minimize the possibility of breakage or leakage of connections if the container settles, moves, or is otherwise displaced.
( f ) Skids, or lugs for attachment of skids, shall be secured to the container in accordance with the code or rules under which the container is designed and built (with a minimum factor of safety of four) to withstand loading in any direction equal to four times the weight of the container and attachments when filled to the maximum permissible loaded weight.
(viii) Field welding where necessary shall be made only on saddle plates or brackets which were applied by the manufacturer of the tank.
(ix) For aboveground containers, secure anchorage or adequate pier height shall be provided against possible container flotation wherever sufficiently high floodwater might occur.
(x) When permanently installed containers are interconnected, provision shall be made to compensate for expansion, contraction, vibration, and settling of containers, and interconnecting piping. Where flexible connections are used, they shall be of an approved type and shall be designed for a bursting pressure of not less than five times the vapor pressure of the product at 100 degrees F. The use of nonmetallic hose is prohibited for permanently interconnecting such containers.
(xi) Container assemblies listed for interchangeable installation above ground or under ground shall conform to the requirements for aboveground installations with respect to safety relief capacity and filling density. For installation above ground all other requirements for aboveground installations shall apply. For installation under ground all other requirements for underground installations shall apply.
(8) Protection of container accessories. (i) Valves, regulating, gaging, and other container accessory equipment shall be protected against tampering and physical damage. Such accessories shall also be so protected during the transit of containers intended for installation underground.
