§ 1910.119 Process safety management of highly hazardous chemicals.
(5) The employer shall establish a system to promptly address the team's findings and recommendations; assure that the recommendations are resolved in a timely manner and that the resolution is documented; document what actions are to be taken; complete actions as soon as possible; develop a written schedule of when these actions are to be completed; communicate the actions to operating, maintenance and other employees whose work assignments are in the process and who may be affected by the recommendations or actions.
(6) At least every five (5) years after the completion of the initial process hazard analysis, the process hazard analysis shall be updated and revalidated by a team meeting the requirements in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, to assure that the process hazard analysis is consistent with the current process.
(7) Employers shall retain process hazards analyses and updates or revalidations for each process covered by this section, as well as the documented resolution of recommendations described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section for the life of the process.
(f) Operating procedures. (1) The employer shall develop and implement written operating procedures that provide clear instructions for safely conducting activities involved in each covered process consistent with the process safety information and shall address at least the following elements.
(i) Steps for each operating phase:
(A) Initial startup;
(B) Normal operations;
(C) Temporary operations;
(D) Emergency shutdown including the conditions under which emergency shutdown is required, and the assignment of shutdown responsibility to qualified operators to ensure that emergency shutdown is executed in a safe and timely manner.
(E) Emergency Operations;
(F) Normal shutdown; and,
(G) Startup following a turnaround, or after an emergency shutdown.
(ii) Operating limits:
(A) Consequences of deviation; and
(B) Steps required to correct or avoid deviation.
(iii) Safety and health considerations:
(A) Properties of, and hazards presented by, the chemicals used in the process;
(B) Precautions necessary to prevent exposure, including engineering controls, administrative controls, and personal protective equipment;
(C) Control measures to be taken if physical contact or airborne exposure occurs;
(D) Quality control for raw materials and control of hazardous chemical inventory levels; and,
(E) Any special or unique hazards.
(iv) Safety systems and their functions.
(2) Operating procedures shall be readily accessible to employees who work in or maintain a process.
