§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(ii) Gloves, an isolation gown or protective clothing, and eye protection to each employee and ensure that the PPE is used in accordance with subpart I of this part.
Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( f )(3): For aerosol-generating procedures on a person suspected or confirmed with COVID-19, employers are encouraged to select elastomeric respirators or PAPRs instead of filtering facepiece respirators.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( f )(3): Additional requirements specific to aerosol-generating procedures on people with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 are contained in paragraph (g) of this section.
(4) Use of respirators when not required. (i) The employer may provide a respirator to the employee instead of a facemask as required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. In such circumstances, the employer must comply with § 1910.504.
(ii) Where the employer provides the employee with a facemask as required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the employer must permit the employee to wear their own respirator instead of a facemask. In such circumstances, the employer must also comply with § 1910.504.
(5) Respirators and other PPE based on Standard and Transmission-Based Precautions. The employer must provide protective clothing and equipment ( e.g., respirators, gloves, gowns, goggles, face shields) to each employee in accordance with Standard and Transmission-Based Precautions in healthcare settings in accordance with CDC's "Guidelines for Isolation Precautions" (incorporated by reference, § 1910.509) and ensure that the protective clothing and equipment is used in accordance with subpart I of this part.
(g) Aerosol-generating procedures on a person with suspected or confirmed COVID-19. When an aerosol-generating procedure is performed on a person with suspected or confirmed COVID-19:
(1) The employer must limit the number of employees present during the procedure to only those essential for patient care and procedure support.
(2) The employer must ensure that the procedure is performed in an existing AIIR, if available.
(3) After the procedure is completed, the employer must clean and disinfect the surfaces and equipment in the room or area where the procedure was performed.
