§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(13) Container-charging plants. (i) The container-charging room shall be located not less than:
( a ) Ten feet from bulk storage containers.
( b ) [Reserved]
(ii) Tank truck filling station outlets shall be located not less than:
( a ) [Reserved]
( b ) Ten feet from pumps and compressors if housed in one or more separate buildings.
(iii) The pumps or compressors may be located in the container-charging room or building, in a separate building, or outside of buildings. When housed in a separate building, such building (a small noncombustible weather cover is not to be construed as a building) shall be located not less than:
( a ) Ten feet from bulk storage tanks.
( b ) [Reserved]
( c ) Twenty-five feet from sources of ignition.
(iv) When a part of the container-charging building is to be used for a boiler room or where open flames or similar sources of ignition exist or are employed, the space to be so occupied shall be separated from container charging room by a partition wall or walls of fire-resistant construction continuous from floor to roof or ceiling. Such separation walls shall be without openings and shall be joined to the floor, other walls, and ceiling or roof in a manner to effect a permanent gas-tight joint.
(v) Electrical equipment and installations shall conform with paragraphs (b) (17) and (18) of this section.
(14) Fire protection. (i) Each bulk plant shall be provided with at least one approved portable fire extinguisher having a minimum rating of 12-B, C.
(ii) In industrial installations involving containers of 150,000 gallons aggregate water capacity or more, provision shall be made for an adequate supply of water at the container site for fire protection in the container area, unless other adequate means for fire control are provided. Water hydrants shall be readily accessible and so spaced as to provide water protection for all containers. Sufficient lengths of firehose shall be provided at each hydrant location on a hose cart, or other means provided to facilitate easy movement of the hose in the container area. It is desirable to equip the outlet of each hose line with a combination fog nozzle. A shelter shall be provided to protect the hose and its conveyor from the weather.
(15) [Reserved]
