§ 1910.423 Post-dive procedures.
(a) General. The employer shall comply with the following requirements which are applicable after each diving operation, unless otherwise specified.
(b) Precautions. (1) After the completion of any dive, the employer shall:
(i) Check the physical condition of the diver;
(ii) Instruct the diver to report any physical problems or adverse physiological effects including symptoms of decompression sickness;
(iii) Advise the diver of the location of a decompression chamber which is ready for use; and
(iv) Alert the diver to the potential hazards of flying after diving.
(2) For any dive outside the no-decompression limits, deeper than 100 fsw or using mixed gas as a breathing mixture, the employer shall instruct the diver to remain awake and in the vicinity of the decompression chamber which is at the dive location for at least one hour after the dive (including decompression or treatment as appropriate).
(c) Recompression capability. (1) A decompression chamber capable of recompressing the diver at the surface to a minimum of 165 fsw (6 ATA) shall be available at the dive location for:
(i) Surface-supplied air diving to depths deeper than 100 fsw and shallower than 220 fsw;
(ii) Mixed gas diving shallower than 300 fsw; or
(iii) Diving outside the no-decompression limits shallower than 300 fsw.
(2) A decompression chamber capable of recompressing the diver at the surface to the maximum depth of the dive shall be available at the dive location for dives deeper than 300 fsw.
(3) The decompression chamber shall be:
(i) Dual-lock;
(ii) Multiplace; and
(iii) Located within 5 minutes of the dive location.
(4) The decompression chamber shall be equipped with:
(i) A pressure gauge for each pressurized compartment designed for human occupancy;
(ii) A built-in-breathing-system with a minimum of one mask per occupant;
(iii) A two-way voice communication system between occupants and a dive team member at the dive location;
(iv) A viewport; and
(v) Illumination capability to light the interior.
