§ 1910.36 Design and construction requirements for exit routes.
(2) The door that connects any room to an exit route must swing out in the direction of exit travel if the room is designed to be occupied by more than 50 people or if the room is a high hazard area ( i.e., contains contents that are likely to burn with extreme rapidity or explode).
(f) The capacity of an exit route must be adequate. (1) Exit routes must support the maximum permitted occupant load for each floor served.
(2) The capacity of an exit route may not decrease in the direction of exit route travel to the exit discharge.
Note: Note to paragraph ( f ) of this section: Information regarding the "Occupant load" is located in NFPA 101-2009, Life Safety Code, and in IFC-2009, International Fire Code (incorporated by reference, see § 1910.6).
(g) An exit route must meet minimum height and width requirements. (1) The ceiling of an exit route must be at least seven feet six inches (2.3 m) high. Any projection from the ceiling must not reach a point less than six feet eight inches (2.0 m) from the floor.
(2) An exit access must be at least 28 inches (71.1 cm) wide at all points. Where there is only one exit access leading to an exit or exit discharge, the width of the exit and exit discharge must be at least equal to the width of the exit access.
(3) The width of an exit route must be sufficient to accommodate the maximum permitted occupant load of each floor served by the exit route.
(4) Objects that project into the exit route must not reduce the width of the exit route to less than the minimum width requirements for exit routes.
(h) An outdoor exit route is permitted. Each outdoor exit route must meet the minimum height and width requirements for indoor exit routes and must also meet the following requirements:
(1) The outdoor exit route must have guardrails to protect unenclosed sides if a fall hazard exists;
(2) The outdoor exit route must be covered if snow or ice is likely to accumulate along the route, unless the employer can demonstrate that any snow or ice accumulation will be removed before it presents a slipping hazard;
(3) The outdoor exit route must be reasonably straight and have smooth, solid, substantially level walkways; and
