§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(d) Ventilation —(1) Conformance. Ventilating and exhaust systems shall be in accordance with the Standard for Blower and Exhaust Systems for Vapor Removal, NFPA No. 91-1961, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6, where applicable and shall also conform to the provisions of this section. (2) General. All spraying areas shall be provided with mechanical ventilation adequate to remove flammable vapors, mists, or powders to a safe location and to confine and control combustible residues so that life is not endangered. Mechanical ventilation shall be kept in operation at all times while spraying operations are being conducted and for a sufficient time thereafter to allow vapors from drying coated articles and drying finishing material residue to be exhausted. (3) Independent exhaust. Each spray booth shall have an independent exhaust duct system discharging to the exterior of the building, except that multiple cabinet spray booths in which identical spray finishing material is used with a combined frontal area of not more than 18 square feet may have a common exhaust. If more than one fan serves one booth, all fans shall be so interconnected that one fan cannot operate without all fans being operated. (4) Fan-rotating element. The fan-rotating element shall be nonferrous or nonsparking or the casing shall consist of or be lined with such material. There shall be ample clearance between the fan-rotating element and the fan casing to avoid a fire by friction, necessary allowance being made for ordinary expansion and loading to prevent contact between moving parts and the duct or fan housing. Fan blades shall be mounted on a shaft sufficiently heavy to maintain perfect alignment even when the blades of the fan are heavily loaded, the shaft preferably to have bearings outside the duct and booth. All bearings shall be of the self-lubricating type, or lubricated from the outside duct. (5) Electric motors. Electric motors driving exhaust fans shall not be placed inside booths or ducts. See also paragraph (c) of this section. (6) Belts. Belts shall not enter the duct or booth unless the belt and pulley within the duct or booth are thoroughly enclosed. (7) Exhaust ducts. Exhaust ducts shall be constructed of steel and shall be substantially supported. Exhaust ducts without dampers are preferred; however, if dampers are installed, they shall be maintained so that they will be in a full open position at