§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
(2) Alerting employees. Where there is the possibility of employee exposure to MDA due to an emergency, means shall be developed to alert promptly those employees who have the potential to be directly exposed. Affected employees not engaged in correcting emergency conditions shall be evacuated immediately in the event that an emergency occurs. Means shall also be developed and implemented for alerting other employees who may be exposed as a result of the emergency.
(e) Exposure monitoring —(1) General. (i) Determinations of employee exposure shall be made from breathing zone air samples that are representative of each employee's exposure to airborne MDA over an eight (8) hour period. Determination of employee exposure to the STEL shall be made from breathing zone air samples collected over a 15 minute sampling period.
(ii) Representative employee exposure shall be determined on the basis of one or more samples representing full shift exposure for each shift for each job classification in each work area where exposure to MDA may occur.
(iii) Where the employer can document that exposure levels are equivalent for similar operations in different work shifts, the employer shall only be required to determine representative employee exposure for that operation during one shift.
(2) Initial monitoring. Each employer who has a workplace or work operation covered by this standard shall perform initial monitoring to determine accurately the airborne concentrations of MDA to which employees may be exposed.
(3) Periodic monitoring and monitoring frequency. (i) If the monitoring required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section reveals employee exposure at or above the action level, but at or below the PELs, the employer shall repeat such representative monitoring for each such employee at least every six (6) months.
(ii) If the monitoring required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section reveals employee exposure above the PELs, the employer shall repeat such monitoring for each such employee at least every three (3) months.
(iii) The employer may alter the monitoring schedule from every three months to every six months for any employee for whom two consecutive measurements taken at least 7 days apart indicate that the employee exposure has decreased to below the TWA but above the action level.
(4) Termination of monitoring. (i) If the initial monitoring required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section reveals employee exposure to be below the action level, the employer may discontinue the monitoring for that employee, except as otherwise required by paragraph (e)(5) of this section.
