§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(4) Evaluating potential hazards. Before any entrance cover to an enclosed space is removed, the employer shall determine whether it is safe to do so by checking for the presence of any atmospheric pressure or temperature differences and by evaluating whether there might be a hazardous atmosphere in the space. Any conditions making it unsafe to remove the cover shall be eliminated before the cover is removed.
Note: Note to paragraph ( e )(4): The determination called for in this paragraph may consist of a check of the conditions that might foreseeably be in the enclosed space. For example, the cover could be checked to see if it is hot and, if it is fastened in place, could be loosened gradually to release any residual pressure. An evaluation also needs to be made of whether conditions at the site could cause a hazardous atmosphere, such as an oxygen-deficient or flammable atmosphere, to develop within the space.
(5) Removing covers. When covers are removed from enclosed spaces, the opening shall be promptly guarded by a railing, temporary cover, or other barrier designed to prevent an accidental fall through the opening and to protect employees working in the space from objects entering the space.
(6) Hazardous atmosphere. Employees may not enter any enclosed space while it contains a hazardous atmosphere, unless the entry conforms to the permit-required confined spaces standard in § 1910.146.
(7) Attendants. While work is being performed in the enclosed space, an attendant with first-aid training shall be immediately available outside the enclosed space to provide assistance if a hazard exists because of traffic patterns in the area of the opening used for entry. The attendant is not precluded from performing other duties outside the enclosed space if these duties do not distract the attendant from: monitoring employees within the space or ensuring that it is safe for employees to enter and exit the space.
Note: Note to paragraph ( e )(7): See paragraph (t) of this section for additional requirements on attendants for work in manholes and vaults.
(8) Calibration of test instruments. Test instruments used to monitor atmospheres in enclosed spaces shall be kept in calibration and shall have a minimum accuracy of +/-10 percent.
(9) Testing for oxygen deficiency. Before an employee enters an enclosed space, the atmosphere in the enclosed space shall be tested for oxygen deficiency with a direct-reading meter or similar instrument, capable of collection and immediate analysis of data samples without the need for off-site evaluation. If continuous forced-air ventilation is provided, testing is not required provided that the procedures used ensure that employees are not exposed to the hazards posed by oxygen deficiency.
(10) Testing for flammable gases and vapors. Before an employee enters an enclosed space, the internal atmosphere shall be tested for flammable gases and vapors with a direct-reading meter or similar instrument capable of collection and immediate analysis of data samples without the need for off-site evaluation. This test shall be performed after the oxygen testing and ventilation required by paragraph (e)(9) of this section demonstrate that there is sufficient oxygen to ensure the accuracy of the test for flammability.
(11) Ventilation, and monitoring for flammable gases or vapors. If flammable gases or vapors are detected or if an oxygen deficiency is found, forced-air ventilation shall be used to maintain oxygen at a safe level and to prevent a hazardous concentration of flammable gases and vapors from accumulating. A continuous monitoring program to ensure that no increase in flammable gas or vapor concentration above safe levels occurs may be followed in lieu of ventilation if flammable gases or vapors are initially detected at safe levels.
Note: Note to paragraph ( e )(11): See the definition of "hazardous atmosphere" for guidance in determining whether a specific concentration of a substance is hazardous.
(12) Specific ventilation requirements. If continuous forced-air ventilation is used, it shall begin before entry is made and shall be maintained long enough for the employer to be able to demonstrate that a safe atmosphere exists before employees are allowed to enter the work area. The forced-air ventilation shall be so directed as to ventilate the immediate area where employees are present within the enclosed space and shall continue until all employees leave the enclosed space.
(13) Air supply. The air supply for the continuous forced-air ventilation shall be from a clean source and may not increase the hazards in the enclosed space.
(14) Open flames. If open flames are used in enclosed spaces, a test for flammable gases and vapors shall be made immediately before the open flame device is used and at least once per hour while the device is used in the space. Testing shall be conducted more frequently if conditions present in the enclosed space indicate that once per hour is insufficient to detect hazardous accumulations of flammable gases or vapors.
Note: Note to paragraph ( e )(14): See the definition of "hazardous atmosphere" for guidance in determining whether a specific concentration of a substance is hazardous.
Note: Note to paragraph ( e ): Entries into enclosed spaces conducted in accordance with the permit-space entry requirements of paragraphs (d) through (k) of § 1910.146 are considered as complying with paragraph (e) of this section.
(f) Excavations. Excavation operations shall comply with subpart P of part 1926 of this chapter.
(g) Personal protective equipment —(1) General. Personal protective equipment shall meet the requirements of subpart I of this part.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(1) of this section: Paragraph (h) of § 1910.132 sets employer payment obligations for the personal protective equipment required by this section, including, but not limited to, the fall protection equipment required by paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the electrical protective equipment required by paragraph (l)(3) of this section, and the flame-resistant and arc-rated clothing and other protective equipment required by paragraph (l)(8) of this section.
(2) Fall protection. (i) Personal fall arrest systems shall meet the requirements of subpart I of this part.
(ii) Personal fall arrest equipment used by employees who are exposed to hazards from flames or electric arcs, as determined by the employer under paragraph (l)(8)(i) of this section, shall be capable of passing a drop test equivalent to that required by paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(L) of this section after exposure to an electric arc with a heat energy of 40+/-5 cal/cm 2 .
(iii) Body belts and positioning straps for work-positioning equipment shall meet the following requirements:
(A) Hardware for body belts and positioning straps shall meet the following requirements:
( 1 ) Hardware shall be made of drop-forged steel, pressed steel, formed steel, or equivalent material.
( 2 ) Hardware shall have a corrosion-resistant finish.
( 3 ) Hardware surfaces shall be smooth and free of sharp edges.
(B) Buckles shall be capable of withstanding an 8.9-kilonewton (2,000-pound-force) tension test with a maximum permanent deformation no greater than 0.4 millimeters (0.0156 inches).
(C) D rings shall be capable of withstanding a 22-kilonewton (5,000-pound-force) tensile test without cracking or breaking.
(D) Snaphooks shall be capable of withstanding a 22-kilonewton (5,000-pound-force) tension test without failure.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(2)( iii )(D): Distortion of the snaphook sufficient to release the keeper is considered to be tensile failure of a snaphook.
(E) Top grain leather or leather substitute may be used in the manufacture of body belts and positioning straps; however, leather and leather substitutes may not be used alone as a load-bearing component of the assembly.
(F) Plied fabric used in positioning straps and in load-bearing parts of body belts shall be constructed in such a way that no raw edges are exposed and the plies do not separate.
(G) Positioning straps shall be capable of withstanding the following tests:
( 1 ) A dielectric test of 819.7 volts, AC, per centimeter (25,000 volts per foot) for 3 minutes without visible deterioration;
( 2 ) A leakage test of 98.4 volts, AC, per centimeter (3,000 volts per foot) with a leakage current of no more than 1 mA;
Note: Note to paragraphs ( g )(2)( iii )(G)( 1 ) and ( g )(2)( iii )(G)( 2 ): Positioning straps that pass direct-current tests at equivalent voltages are considered as meeting this requirement.
( 3 ) Tension tests of 20 kilonewtons (4,500 pounds-force) for sections free of buckle holes and of 15 kilonewtons (3,500 pounds-force) for sections with buckle holes;
( 4 ) A buckle-tear test with a load of 4.4 kilonewtons (1,000 pounds-force); and
( 5 ) A flammability test in accordance with Table R-2.

Table R-2—Flammability Test
---------------------------
Test method Criteria for passing the test
-----------------------------------------
Vertically suspend a 500-mm (19.7-inch) length of strapping supporting a 100-kg (220.5-lb) weight Use a butane or propane burner with a 76-mm (3-inch) flame. Any flames on the positioning strap shall self extinguish. The positioning strap shall continue to support the 100-kg (220.5-lb) mass.
Direct the flame to an edge of the strapping at a distance of 25 mm (1 inch)
Remove the flame after 5 seconds
Wait for any flames on the positioning strap to stop burning

(H) The cushion part of the body belt shall contain no exposed rivets on the inside and shall be at least 76 millimeters (3 inches) in width.
(I) Tool loops shall be situated on the body of a body belt so that the 100 millimeters (4 inches) of the body belt that is in the center of the back, measuring from D ring to D ring, is free of tool loops and any other attachments.
(J) Copper, steel, or equivalent liners shall be used around the bars of D rings to prevent wear between these members and the leather or fabric enclosing them.
(K) Snaphooks shall be of the locking type meeting the following requirements:
( 1 ) The locking mechanism shall first be released, or a destructive force shall be placed on the keeper, before the keeper will open.
( 2 ) A force in the range of 6.7 N (1.5 lbf) to 17.8 N (4 lbf) shall be required to release the locking mechanism.
( 3 ) With the locking mechanism released and with a force applied on the keeper against the face of the nose, the keeper may not begin to open with a force of 11.2 N (2.5 lbf) or less and shall begin to open with a maximum force of 17.8 N (4 lbf).
(L) Body belts and positioning straps shall be capable of withstanding a drop test as follows:
( 1 ) The test mass shall be rigidly constructed of steel or equivalent material with a mass of 100 kg (220.5 lbm). For work-positioning equipment used by employees weighing more than 140 kg (310 lbm) fully equipped, the test mass shall be increased proportionately (that is, the test mass must equal the mass of the equipped worker divided by 1.4).
( 2 ) For body belts, the body belt shall be fitted snugly around the test mass and shall be attached to the test-structure anchorage point by means of a wire rope.
( 3 ) For positioning straps, the strap shall be adjusted to its shortest length possible to accommodate the test and connected to the test-structure anchorage point at one end and to the test mass on the other end.
( 4 ) The test mass shall be dropped an unobstructed distance of 1 meter (39.4 inches) from a supporting structure that will sustain minimal deflection during the test.
( 5 ) Body belts shall successfully arrest the fall of the test mass and shall be capable of supporting the mass after the test.
( 6 ) Positioning straps shall successfully arrest the fall of the test mass without breaking, and the arrest force may not exceed 17.8 kilonewtons (4,000 pounds-force). Additionally, snaphooks on positioning straps may not distort to such an extent that the keeper would release.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(2)( iii ) of this section: When used by employees weighing no more than 140 kg (310 lbm) fully equipped, body belts and positioning straps that conform to American Society of Testing and Materials Standard Specifications for Personal Climbing Equipment, ASTM F887-12 e1 , are deemed to be in compliance with paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section.
(iv) The following requirements apply to the care and use of personal fall protection equipment.
(A) Work-positioning equipment shall be inspected before use each day to determine that the equipment is in safe working condition. Work-positioning equipment that is not in safe working condition may not be used.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(2)( iv )(A): Appendix F to this section contains guidelines for inspecting work-positioning equipment.
(B) Personal fall arrest systems shall be used in accordance with subpart I of this part.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(2)( iv )(B): Fall protection equipment rigged to arrest falls is considered a fall arrest system and must meet the applicable requirements for the design and use of those systems. Fall protection equipment rigged for work positioning is considered work-positioning equipment and must meet the applicable requirements for the design and use of that equipment.
(C) The employer shall ensure that employees use fall protection systems as follows:
(1) Each employee working from an aerial lift shall use a travel restraint system or a personal fall arrest system.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(iv)(C)(3) of this section, each employee in elevated locations more than 1.2 meters (4 feet) above the ground on poles, towers, or similar structures shall use a personal fall arrest system, work-positioning equipment, or fall restraint system, as appropriate, if the employer has not provided other fall protection meeting Subpart D of this part.
(3) Until March 31, 2015, a qualified employee climbing or changing location on poles, towers, or similar structures need not use fall protection equipment, unless conditions, such as, but not limited to, ice, high winds, the design of the structure (for example, no provision for holding on with hands), or the presence of contaminants on the structure, could cause the employee to lose his or her grip or footing. On and after April 1, 2015, each qualified employee climbing or changing location on poles, towers, or similar structures must use fall protection equipment unless the employer can demonstrate that climbing or changing location with fall protection is infeasible or creates a greater hazard than climbing or changing location without it.
Note: Note 1 to paragraphs ( g )(2)( iv )(C)( 2 ) and ( g)(2)(iv)(C)( 3 ): These paragraphs apply to structures that support overhead electric power transmission and distribution lines and equipment. They do not apply to portions of buildings, such as loading docks, or to electric equipment, such as transformers and capacitors. Subpart D of this part contains the duty to provide fall protection associated with walking and working surfaces.
Note: Note 2 to paragraphs ( g )(2)( iv )(C)( 2 ) and ( g)(2)(iv)(C)( 3 ): Until the employer ensures that employees are proficient in climbing and the use of fall protection under paragraph (a)(2)(viii) of this section, the employees are not considered "qualified employees" for the purposes of paragraphs (g)(2)(iv)(C)( 2 ) and (g)(2)(iv)(C)( 3 ) of this section. These paragraphs require unqualified employees (including trainees) to use fall protection any time they are more than 1.2 meters (4 feet) above the ground.
(D) On and after April 1, 2015, work-positioning systems shall be rigged so that an employee can free fall no more than 0.6 meters (2 feet).
(E) Anchorages for work-positioning equipment shall be capable of supporting at least twice the potential impact load of an employee's fall, or 13.3 kilonewtons (3,000 pounds-force), whichever is greater.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g )(2)( iv )(E): Wood-pole fall-restriction devices meeting American Society of Testing and Materials Standard Specifications for Personal Climbing Equipment, ASTM F887-12 e1 , are deemed to meet the anchorage-strength requirement when they are used in accordance with manufacturers' instructions.
(F) Unless the snaphook is a locking type and designed specifically for the following connections, snaphooks on work-positioning equipment may not be engaged:
( 1 ) Directly to webbing, rope, or wire rope;
( 2 ) To each other;
( 3 ) To a D ring to which another snaphook or other connector is attached;
( 4 ) To a horizontal lifeline; or
( 5 ) To any object that is incompatibly shaped or dimensioned in relation to the snaphook such that accidental disengagement could occur should the connected object sufficiently depress the snaphook keeper to allow release of the object.
(h) Portable ladders and platforms —(1) General. Requirements for portable ladders contained in subpart D of this part apply in addition to the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section, except as specifically noted in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2) Special ladders and platforms. Portable ladders used on structures or conductors in conjunction with overhead line work need not meet § 1910.25(d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(iii) or § 1910.26(c)(3)(iii). Portable ladders and platforms used on structures or conductors in conjunction with overhead line work shall meet the following requirements:
(i) In the configurations in which they are used, portable ladders and platforms shall be capable of supporting without failure at least 2.5 times the maximum intended load.
(ii) Portable ladders and platforms may not be loaded in excess of the working loads for which they are designed.
(iii) Portable ladders and platforms shall be secured to prevent them from becoming dislodged.
(iv) Portable ladders and platforms may be used only in applications for which they are designed.
(3) Conductive ladders. Portable metal ladders and other portable conductive ladders may not be used near exposed energized lines or equipment. However, in specialized high-voltage work, conductive ladders shall be used when the employer demonstrates that nonconductive ladders would present a greater hazard to employees than conductive ladders.
(i) Hand and portable power equipment —(1) General. Paragraph (i)(2) of this section applies to electric equipment connected by cord and plug. Paragraph (i)(3) of this section applies to portable and vehicle-mounted generators used to supply cord- and plug-connected equipment. Paragraph (i)(4) of this section applies to hydraulic and pneumatic tools.
(2) Cord- and plug-connected equipment. Cord- and plug-connected equipment not covered by subpart S of this part shall comply with one of the following instead of § 1910.243(a)(5):
(i) The equipment shall be equipped with a cord containing an equipment grounding conductor connected to the equipment frame and to a means for grounding the other end of the conductor (however, this option may not be used where the introduction of the ground into the work environment increases the hazard to an employee); or
(ii) The equipment shall be of the double-insulated type conforming to subpart S of this part; or
(iii) The equipment shall be connected to the power supply through an isolating transformer with an ungrounded secondary of not more than 50 volts.
(3) Portable and vehicle-mounted generators. Portable and vehicle-mounted generators used to supply cord- and plug-connected equipment covered by paragraph (i)(2) of this section shall meet the following requirements:
(i) The generator may only supply equipment located on the generator or the vehicle and cord- and plug-connected equipment through receptacles mounted on the generator or the vehicle.
(ii) The non-current-carrying metal parts of equipment and the equipment grounding conductor terminals of the receptacles shall be bonded to the generator frame.
(iii) For vehicle-mounted generators, the frame of the generator shall be bonded to the vehicle frame.
(iv) Any neutral conductor shall be bonded to the generator frame.
(4) Hydraulic and pneumatic tools. (i) Safe operating pressures for hydraulic and pneumatic tools, hoses, valves, pipes, filters, and fittings may not be exceeded.
Note: Note to paragraph ( i )(4)( i ): If any hazardous defects are present, no operating pressure is safe, and the hydraulic or pneumatic equipment involved may not be used. In the absence of defects, the maximum rated operating pressure is the maximum safe pressure.
(ii) A hydraulic or pneumatic tool used where it may contact exposed energized parts shall be designed and maintained for such use.
(iii) The hydraulic system supplying a hydraulic tool used where it may contact exposed live parts shall provide protection against loss of insulating value, for the voltage involved, due to the formation of a partial vacuum in the hydraulic line.
Note: Note to paragraph ( i )(4)( iii ): Use of hydraulic lines that do not have check valves and that have a separation of more than 10.7 meters (35 feet) between the oil reservoir and the upper end of the hydraulic system promotes the formation of a partial vacuum.
(iv) A pneumatic tool used on energized electric lines or equipment, or used where it may contact exposed live parts, shall provide protection against the accumulation of moisture in the air supply.
(v) Pressure shall be released before connections are broken, unless quick-acting, self-closing connectors are used.
(vi) Employers must ensure that employees do not use any part of their bodies to locate, or attempt to stop, a hydraulic leak.
(vii) Hoses may not be kinked.
(j) Live-line tools —(1) Design of tools. Live-line tool rods, tubes, and poles shall be designed and constructed to withstand the following minimum tests:
(i) If the tool is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP), it shall withstand 328,100 volts per meter (100,000 volts per foot) of length for 5 minutes, or
Note: Note to paragraph ( j )(1)( i ): Live-line tools using rod and tube that meet ASTM F711-02 (2007), Standard Specification for Fiberglass-Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Rod and Tube Used in Live Line Tools, are deemed to comply with paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(ii) If the tool is made of wood, it shall withstand 246,100 volts per meter (75,000 volts per foot) of length for 3 minutes, or
(iii) The tool shall withstand other tests that the employer can demonstrate are equivalent.
(2) Condition of tools. (i) Each live-line tool shall be wiped clean and visually inspected for defects before use each day.
(ii) If any defect or contamination that could adversely affect the insulating qualities or mechanical integrity of the live-line tool is present after wiping, the tool shall be removed from service and examined and tested according to paragraph (j)(2)(iii) of this section before being returned to service.
(iii) Live-line tools used for primary employee protection shall be removed from service every 2 years, and whenever required under paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, for examination, cleaning, repair, and testing as follows:
(A) Each tool shall be thoroughly examined for defects.
(B) If a defect or contamination that could adversely affect the insulating qualities or mechanical integrity of the live-line tool is found, the tool shall be repaired and refinished or shall be permanently removed from service. If no such defect or contamination is found, the tool shall be cleaned and waxed.
(C) The tool shall be tested in accordance with paragraphs (j)(2)(iii)(D) and (j)(2)(iii)(E) of this section under the following conditions:
( 1 ) After the tool has been repaired or refinished; and
( 2 ) After the examination if repair or refinishing is not performed, unless the tool is made of FRP rod or foam-filled FRP tube and the employer can demonstrate that the tool has no defects that could cause it to fail during use.
(D) The test method used shall be designed to verify the tool's integrity along its entire working length and, if the tool is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic, its integrity under wet conditions.
(E) The voltage applied during the tests shall be as follows:
( 1 ) 246,100 volts per meter (75,000 volts per foot) of length for 1 minute if the tool is made of fiberglass, or
( 2 ) 164,000 volts per meter (50,000 volts per foot) of length for 1 minute if the tool is made of wood, or
( 3 ) Other tests that the employer can demonstrate are equivalent.
Note: Note to paragraph ( j )(2): Guidelines for the examination, cleaning, repairing, and in-service testing of live-line tools are specified in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' IEEE Guide for Maintenance Methods on Energized Power Lines, IEEE Std 516-2009.
(k) Materials handling and storage —(1) General. Materials handling and storage shall comply with applicable material-handling and material-storage requirements in this part, including those in subpart N of this part.
(2) Materials storage near energized lines or equipment. (i) In areas to which access is not restricted to qualified persons only, materials or equipment may not be stored closer to energized lines or exposed energized parts of equipment than the following distances, plus a distance that provides for the maximum sag and side swing of all conductors and for the height and movement of material-handling equipment:
(A) For lines and equipment energized at 50 kilovolts or less, the distance is 3.05 meters (10 feet).
(B) For lines and equipment energized at more than 50 kilovolts, the distance is 3.05 meters (10 feet) plus 0.10 meter (4 inches) for every 10 kilovolts over 50 kilovolts.
(ii) In areas restricted to qualified employees, materials may not be stored within the working space about energized lines or equipment.
Note: Note to paragraph ( k )(2)( ii ): Paragraphs (u)(1) and (v)(3) of this section specify the size of the working space.
(l) Working on or near exposed energized parts. This paragraph applies to work on exposed live parts, or near enough to them to expose the employee to any hazard they present.
(1) General. (i) Only qualified employees may work on or with exposed energized lines or parts of equipment.
(ii) Only qualified employees may work in areas containing unguarded, uninsulated energized lines or parts of equipment operating at 50 volts or more.
(iii) Electric lines and equipment shall be considered and treated as energized unless they have been deenergized in accordance with paragraph (d) or (m) of this section.
(2) At least two employees. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, at least two employees shall be present while any employees perform the following types of work:
(A) Installation, removal, or repair of lines energized at more than 600 volts,
(B) Installation, removal, or repair of deenergized lines if an employee is exposed to contact with other parts energized at more than 600 volts,
(C) Installation, removal, or repair of equipment, such as transformers, capacitors, and regulators, if an employee is exposed to contact with parts energized at more than 600 volts,
(D) Work involving the use of mechanical equipment, other than insulated aerial lifts, near parts energized at more than 600 volts, and
(E) Other work that exposes an employee to electrical hazards greater than, or equal to, the electrical hazards posed by operations listed specifically in paragraphs (l)(2)(i)(A) through (l)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) Paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to the following operations:
(A) Routine circuit switching, when the employer can demonstrate that conditions at the site allow safe performance of this work,
(B) Work performed with live-line tools when the position of the employee is such that he or she is neither within reach of, nor otherwise exposed to contact with, energized parts, and
(C) Emergency repairs to the extent necessary to safeguard the general public.
(3) Minimum approach distances. (i) The employer shall establish minimum approach distances no less than the distances computed by Table R-3 for ac systems or Table R-8 for dc systems.
(ii) No later than April 1, 2015, for voltages over 72.5 kilovolts, the employer shall determine the maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage, phase-to-ground, through an engineering analysis or assume a maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage, phase-to-ground, in accordance with Table R-9. When the employer uses portable protective gaps to control the maximum transient overvoltage, the value of the maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage, phase-to-ground, must provide for five standard deviations between the statistical sparkover voltage of the gap and the statistical withstand voltage corresponding to the electrical component of the minimum approach distance. The employer shall make any engineering analysis conducted to determine maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage available upon request to employees and to the Assistant Secretary or designee for examination and copying.
Note: Note to paragraph ( l )(3)( ii ): See appendix B to this section for information on how to calculate the maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage, phase-to-ground, when the employer uses portable protective gaps to reduce maximum transient overvoltages.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that no employee approaches or takes any conductive object closer to exposed energized parts than the employer's established minimum approach distance, unless:
(A) The employee is insulated from the energized part (rubber insulating gloves or rubber insulating gloves and sleeves worn in accordance with paragraph (l)(4) of this section constitutes insulation of the employee from the energized part upon which the employee is working provided that the employee has control of the part in a manner sufficient to prevent exposure to uninsulated portions of the employee's body), or
(B) The energized part is insulated from the employee and from any other conductive object at a different potential, or
(C) The employee is insulated from any other exposed conductive object in accordance with the requirements for live-line barehand work in paragraph (q)(3) of this section.
(4) Type of insulation. (i) When an employee uses rubber insulating gloves as insulation from energized parts (under paragraph (l)(3)(iii)(A) of this section), the employer shall ensure that the employee also uses rubber insulating sleeves. However, an employee need not use rubber insulating sleeves if:
(A) Exposed energized parts on which the employee is not working are insulated from the employee; and
(B) When installing insulation for purposes of paragraph (l)(4)(i)(A) of this section, the employee installs the insulation from a position that does not expose his or her upper arm to contact with other energized parts.
(ii) When an employee uses rubber insulating gloves or rubber insulating gloves and sleeves as insulation from energized parts (under paragraph (l)(3)(iii)(A) of this section), the employer shall ensure that the employee:
(A) Puts on the rubber insulating gloves and sleeves in a position where he or she cannot reach into the minimum approach distance, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section; and
(B) Does not remove the rubber insulating gloves and sleeves until he or she is in a position where he or she cannot reach into the minimum approach distance, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section.
(5) Working position. (i) The employer shall ensure that each employee, to the extent that other safety-related conditions at the worksite permit, works in a position from which a slip or shock will not bring the employee's body into contact with exposed, uninsulated parts energized at a potential different from the employee's.
(ii) When an employee performs work near exposed parts energized at more than 600 volts, but not more than 72.5 kilovolts, and is not wearing rubber insulating gloves, being protected by insulating equipment covering the energized parts, performing work using live-line tools, or performing live-line barehand work under paragraph (q)(3) of this section, the employee shall work from a position where he or she cannot reach into the minimum approach distance, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section.
(6) Making connections. The employer shall ensure that employees make connections as follows:
(i) In connecting deenergized equipment or lines to an energized circuit by means of a conducting wire or device, an employee shall first attach the wire to the deenergized part;
(ii) When disconnecting equipment or lines from an energized circuit by means of a conducting wire or device, an employee shall remove the source end first; and
(iii) When lines or equipment are connected to or disconnected from energized circuits, an employee shall keep loose conductors away from exposed energized parts.
(7) Conductive articles. When an employee performs work within reaching distance of exposed energized parts of equipment, the employer shall ensure that the employee removes or renders nonconductive all exposed conductive articles, such as keychains or watch chains, rings, or wrist watches or bands, unless such articles do not increase the hazards associated with contact with the energized parts.
(8) Protection from flames and electric arcs. (i) The employer shall assess the workplace to identify employees exposed to hazards from flames or from electric arcs.
(ii) For each employee exposed to hazards from electric arcs, the employer shall make a reasonable estimate of the incident heat energy to which the employee would be exposed.
Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( l )(8)( ii ): Appendix E to this section provides guidance on estimating available heat energy. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration will deem employers following the guidance in appendix E to this section to be in compliance with paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section. An employer may choose a method of calculating incident heat energy not included in appendix E to this section if the chosen method reasonably predicts the incident energy to which the employee would be exposed.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( l )(8)( ii ): This paragraph does not require the employer to estimate the incident heat energy exposure for every job task performed by each employee. The employer may make broad estimates that cover multiple system areas provided the employer uses reasonable assumptions about the energy-exposure distribution throughout the system and provided the estimates represent the maximum employee exposure for those areas. For example, the employer could estimate the heat energy just outside a substation feeding a radial distribution system and use that estimate for all jobs performed on that radial system.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that each employee who is exposed to hazards from flames or electric arcs does not wear clothing that could melt onto his or her skin or that could ignite and continue to burn when exposed to flames or the heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section.
