§ 1910.134 Respiratory protection.
(i) Changes in the workplace or the type of respirator render previous training obsolete;
(ii) Inadequacies in the employee's knowledge or use of the respirator indicate that the employee has not retained the requisite understanding or skill; or
(iii) Any other situation arises in which retraining appears necessary to ensure safe respirator use.
(6) The basic advisory information on respirators, as presented in appendix D of this section, shall be provided by the employer in any written or oral format, to employees who wear respirators when such use is not required by this section or by the employer.
(l) Program evaluation. This section requires the employer to conduct evaluations of the workplace to ensure that the written respiratory protection program is being properly implemented, and to consult employees to ensure that they are using the respirators properly.
(1) The employer shall conduct evaluations of the workplace as necessary to ensure that the provisions of the current written program are being effectively implemented and that it continues to be effective.
(2) The employer shall regularly consult employees required to use respirators to assess the employees' views on program effectiveness and to identify any problems. Any problems that are identified during this assessment shall be corrected. Factors to be assessed include, but are not limited to:
(i) Respirator fit (including the ability to use the respirator without interfering with effective workplace performance);
(ii) Appropriate respirator selection for the hazards to which the employee is exposed;
(iii) Proper respirator use under the workplace conditions the employee encounters; and
(iv) Proper respirator maintenance.
(m) Recordkeeping. This section requires the employer to establish and retain written information regarding medical evaluations, fit testing, and the respirator program. This information will facilitate employee involvement in the respirator program, assist the employer in auditing the adequacy of the program, and provide a record for compliance determinations by OSHA.
(1) Medical evaluation. Records of medical evaluations required by this section must be retained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2) Fit testing. (i) The employer shall establish a record of the qualitative and quantitative fit tests administered to an employee including:
(A) The name or identification of the employee tested;
(B) Type of fit test performed;
