§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(c) Load ratings —(1) Rated load marking. For permanently installed derricks with fixed lengths of boom, guy, and mast, a substantial, durable, and clearly legible rating chart shall be provided with each derrick and securely affixed where it is visible to personnel responsible for the safe operation of the equipment. The chart shall include the following data:
(i) Manufacturer's approved load ratings at corresponding ranges of boom angle or operating radii.
(ii) Specific lengths of components on which the load ratings are based.
(iii) Required parts for hoist reeving. Size and construction of rope may be shown either on the rating chart or in the operating manual.
(2) Nonpermanent installations. For nonpermanent installations, the manufacturer shall provide sufficient information from which capacity charts can be prepared for the particular installation. The capacity charts shall be located at the derricks or the jobsite office.
(d) Inspection —(1) Inspection classification. (i) Prior to initial use all new and altered derricks shall be inspected to insure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(ii) Inspection procedure for derricks in regular service is divided into two general classifications based upon the intervals at which inspection should be performed. The intervals in turn are dependent upon the nature of the critical components of the derrick and the degree of their exposure to wear, deterioration, or malfunction. The two general classifications are herein designated as frequent and periodic with respective intervals between inspections as defined below:
( a ) Frequent inspection—Daily to monthly intervals.
( b ) Periodic inspection—1- to 12-month intervals, or as specified by the manufacturer.
(2) Frequent inspection. Items such as the following shall be inspected for defects at intervals as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)( a ) of this section or as specifically indicated, including observation during operation for any defects which might appear between regular inspections. Deficiencies shall be carefully examined for any safety hazard:
(i) All control mechanisms: Inspect daily for adjustment, wear, and lubrication.
(ii) All chords and lacing: Inspect daily, visually.
(iii) Tension in guys: Daily.
(iv) Plumb of the mast.
(v) Deterioration or leakage in air or hydraulic systems: Daily.
