§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
to raise and lower a suspended or supported unit. Hoist rated load means the hoist manufacturer's maximum allowable operating load. Installation means all the equipment and all affected parts of a building which are associated with the performance of building maintenance using powered platforms. Interlock means a device designed to ensure that operations or motions occur in proper sequence. Intermittent stabilization means a method of platform stabilization in which the angulated suspension wire rope(s) are secured to regularly spaced building anchors. Lanyard means a flexible line of rope, wire rope or strap which is used to secure the body belt or body harness to a deceleration device, lifeline or anchorage. Lifeline means a component consisting of a flexible line for connection to an anchorage at one end to hang vertically (vertical lifeline), or for connection to anchorages at both ends to stretch horizontally (horizontal lifeline), and which serves as a means for connecting other components of a personal fall arrest system to the anchorage. Live load means the total static weight of workers, tools, parts, and supplies that the equipment is designed to support. Obstruction detector means a control that will stop the suspended or supported unit in the direction of travel if an obstruction is encountered, and will allow the unit to move only in a direction away from the obstruction. Operating control means a mechanism regulating or guiding the operation of equipment that ensures a specific operating mode. Operating device means a device actuated manually to activate a control. Outrigger means a device, used singly or in pairs, for suspending a working platform from work, storage, and rigging locations on the building being serviced. Unlike davits, an outrigger reacts its operating moment load as at least two opposing vertical components acting into two or more distinct roof points and/or attachments. Platform rated load means the combined weight of workers, tools, equipment and other material which is permitted to be carried by the working platform at the installation, as stated on the load rating plate. Poured socket means the method of providing wire rope terminations in which the ends of the rope are held in a tapered socket by means of poured spelter or resins. Primary brake means a brake designed to be applied automatically whenever power to the prime mover is interrupted or discontinued. Prime mover means the source of mechanical power for a machine. Rated load means the manufacturer's recommended maximum load. Rated strength means the strength of wire rope, as designated by its manufacturer or vendor, based on standard testing procedures or acceptable engineering design practices. Rated working load means the combined static weight of men, materials, and suspended or supported equipment. Registered professional engineer means a person who has been duly and currently registered and licensed by an authority within the United States or its territories to practice the profession of engineering. Roof powered platform means a working platform where the hoist(s) used to raise or lower the platform is located on the roof. Roof rigged davit means a davit used to raise the suspended working platform