§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(iii) The contract employer and the host employer shall coordinate their work rules and procedures so that each employee of the contract employer and the host employer is protected as required by this section.
(4) Existing characteristics and conditions. Existing characteristics and conditions of electric lines and equipment that are related to the safety of the work to be performed shall be determined before work on or near the lines or equipment is started. Such characteristics and conditions include, but are not limited to:
(i) The nominal voltages of lines and equipment,
(ii) The maximum switching-transient voltages,
(iii) The presence of hazardous induced voltages,
(iv) The presence of protective grounds and equipment grounding conductors,
(v) The locations of circuits and equipment, including electric supply lines, communication lines, and fire-protective signaling circuits,
(vi) The condition of protective grounds and equipment grounding conductors,
(vii) The condition of poles, and
(viii) Environmental conditions relating to safety.
(b) Medical services and first aid. The employer shall provide medical services and first aid as required in § 1910.151. In addition to the requirements of § 1910.151, the following requirements also apply:
(1) First-aid training. When employees are performing work on, or associated with, exposed lines or equipment energized at 50 volts or more, persons with first-aid training shall be available as follows:
(i) For field work involving two or more employees at a work location, at least two trained persons shall be available. However, for line-clearance tree trimming performed by line-clearance tree trimmers who are not qualified employees, only one trained person need be available if all new employees are trained in first aid within 3 months of their hiring dates.
(ii) For fixed work locations such as substations, the number of trained persons available shall be sufficient to ensure that each employee exposed to electric shock can be reached within 4 minutes by a trained person. However, where the existing number of employees is insufficient to meet this requirement (at a remote substation, for example), each employee at the work location shall be a trained employee.
(2) First-aid supplies. First-aid supplies required by § 1910.151(b) shall be placed in weatherproof containers if the supplies could be exposed to the weather.
