§ 1910.1043 Cotton dust.
(h) Medical surveillance —(1) General. (i) Each employer covered by the standard shall institute a program of medical surveillance for all employees exposed to cotton dust.
(ii) The employer shall assure that all medical examinations and procedures are performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician and are provided without cost to the employee.
(iii) Persons other than licensed physicians, who administer the pulmonary function testing required by this section shall have completed a NIOSH-approved training course in spirometry.
(2) Initial examinations. The employer shall provide medical surveillance to each employee who is or may be exposed to cotton dust. For new employees, this examination shall be provided prior to initial assignment. The medical surveillance shall include at least the following:
(i) A medical history;
(ii) The standardized questionnaire contained in appendix B; and
(iii) A pulmonary function measurement, including forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV 1 ), and determination of the FEV 1 /FVC ratio shall be made. FVC, FEV 1 , and FEV 1 /FVC ratio values shall be compared to appropriate race/ethnicity-specific Lower Limit of Normal (LLN) values and predicted values published in Spirometric Reference Values from a Sample of the General U.S. Population, American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 159(1): 179-187, January 1999 (commonly known as the NHANES III reference data set) (incorporated by reference, see § 1910.6). To obtain reference values for Asian-Americans, Spirometric Reference Values FEV 1 and FVC predicted and LLN values for Caucasians shall be multiplied by 0.88 to adjust for ethnic differences. These determinations shall be made for each employee before the employee enters the workplace on the first day of the work week, preceded by at least 35 hours of no exposure to cotton dust. The tests shall be repeated during the shift, no less than 4 and no more than 10 hours after the beginning of the work shift; and, in any event, no more than one hour after cessation of exposure. Such exposure shall be typical of the employee's usual workplace exposure.
(iv) Based upon the questionnaire results, each employee shall be graded according to Schilling's byssinosis classification system.
