§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( c ) Chassis, motor, pan, and underside of body shall be reasonably clean and free of excess oil and grease.
( d ) Fuel tank and feedline shall be secure and have no leaks.
( e ) Brakes, lights, horn, windshield wipers, and steering apparatus shall function properly.
( f ) Tires shall be checked for proper inflation and defects.
( g ) The vehicle shall be in proper condition in every other respect and acceptable for handling explosives.
(3) Operation of transportation vehicles. (i) Vehicles transporting explosives shall only be driven by and be in the charge of a driver who is familiar with the traffic regulations, State laws, and the provisions of this section.
(ii) Except under emergency conditions, no vehicle transporting explosives shall be parked before reaching its destination, even though attended, on any public street adjacent to or in proximity to any place where people work.
(iii) Every motor vehicle transporting any quantity of Class A or Class B explosives shall, at all times, be attended by a driver or other attendant of the motor carrier. This attendant shall have been made aware of the class of the explosive material in the vehicle and of its inherent dangers, and shall have been instructed in the measures and procedures to be followed in order to protect the public from those dangers. He shall have been made familiar with the vehicle he is assigned, and shall be trained, supplied with the necessary means, and authorized to move the vehicle when required.
( a ) For the purpose of this subdivision, a motor vehicle shall be deemed "attended" only when the driver or other attendant is physically on or in the vehicle, or has the vehicle within his field of vision and can reach it quickly and without any kind of interference "attended" also means that the driver or attendant is awake, alert, and not engaged in other duties or activities which may divert his attention from the vehicle, except for necessary communication with public officers, or representatives of the carrier shipper, or consignee, or except for necessary absence from the vehicle to obtain food or to provide for his physical comfort.
( b ) However, an explosive-laden vehicle may be left unattended if parked within a securely fenced or walled area with all gates or entrances locked where parking of such vehicle is otherwise permissible, or at a magazine site established solely for the purpose of storing explosives.
