§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(4) Illumination. The employer shall provide sufficient illumination to enable the employee to perform the work safely.
(5) Protection against drowning. (i) Whenever an employee may be pulled or pushed, or might fall, into water where the danger of drowning exists, the employer shall provide the employee with, and shall ensure that the employee uses, a U.S. Coast Guard-approved personal flotation device.
(ii) The employer shall maintain each personal flotation device in safe condition and shall inspect each personal flotation device frequently enough to ensure that it does not have rot, mildew, water saturation, or any other condition that could render the device unsuitable for use.
(iii) An employee may cross streams or other bodies of water only if a safe means of passage, such as a bridge, is available.
(6) Employee protection in public work areas. (i) Traffic-control signs and traffic-control devices used for the protection of employees shall meet § 1926.200(g)(2) of this chapter.
(ii) Before employees begin work in the vicinity of vehicular or pedestrian traffic that may endanger them, the employer shall place warning signs or flags and other traffic-control devices in conspicuous locations to alert and channel approaching traffic.
(iii) The employer shall use barricades where additional employee protection is necessary.
(iv) The employer shall protect excavated areas with barricades.
(v) The employer shall display warning lights prominently at night.
(7) Backfeed. When there is a possibility of voltage backfeed from sources of cogeneration or from the secondary system (for example, backfeed from more than one energized phase feeding a common load), the requirements of paragraph (l) of this section apply if employees will work the lines or equipment as energized, and the requirements of paragraphs (m) and (n) of this section apply if employees will work the lines or equipment as deenergized.
(8) Lasers. The employer shall install, adjust, and operate laser equipment in accordance with § 1926.54 of this chapter.
(9) Hydraulic fluids. Hydraulic fluids used for the insulated sections of equipment shall provide insulation for the voltage involved.
