§ 1910.399 Definitions applicable to this subpart.
normally performed on or in the vicinity of exposed energized surfaces of electrolytic cell lines or their attachments. Electrolytic cells. A tank or vat in which electrochemical reactions are caused by applying energy for the purpose of refining or producing usable materials. Enclosed. Surrounded by a case, housing, fence, or walls that will prevent persons from accidentally contacting energized parts. Enclosure. The case or housing of apparatus, or the fence or walls surrounding an installation to prevent personnel from accidentally contacting energized parts, or to protect the equipment from physical damage. Energized. Electrically connected to a source of potential difference. Equipment. A general term including material, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures, apparatus, and the like, used as a part of, or in connection with, an electrical installation. Equipment grounding conductor. See Grounding conductor, equipment. Explosion-proof apparatus. Apparatus enclosed in a case that is capable of withstanding an explosion of a specified gas or vapor that may occur within it and of preventing the ignition of a specified gas or vapor surrounding the enclosure by sparks, flashes, or explosion of the gas or vapor within, and that operates at such an external temperature that it will not ignite a surrounding flammable atmosphere. Exposed. (As applied to live parts.) Capable of being inadvertently touched or approached nearer than a safe distance by a person. It is applied to parts not suitably guarded, isolated, or insulated. (See Accessible and Concealed.) Exposed. (As applied to wiring methods.) On or attached to the surface, or behind panels designed to allow access. (See Accessible. (As applied to wiring methods.)) Exposed. (For the purposes of § 1910.308(e).) Where the circuit is in such a position that in case of failure of supports or insulation, contact with another circuit may result. Externally operable. Capable of being operated without exposing the operator to contact with live parts. Feeder. All circuit conductors between the service equipment, the source of a separate derived system, or other power supply source and the final branch-circuit overcurrent device. Fitting. An accessory such as a locknut, bushing, or other part of a wiring system that is intended primarily to perform a mechanical rather than an electrical function. Fountain. Fountains, ornamental pools, display pools, and reflection pools.