§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(3) Live-line barehand work. In addition to other applicable provisions contained in this section, the following requirements apply to live-line barehand work:
(i) Before an employee uses or supervises the use of the live-line barehand technique on energized circuits, the employer shall ensure that the employee completes training conforming to paragraph (a)(2) of this section in the technique and in the safety requirements of paragraph (q)(3) of this section.
(ii) Before any employee uses the live-line barehand technique on energized high-voltage conductors or parts, the employer shall ascertain the following information in addition to information about other existing conditions required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section:
(A) The nominal voltage rating of the circuit on which employees will perform the work,
(B) The clearances to ground of lines and other energized parts on which employees will perform the work, and
(C) The voltage limitations of equipment employees will use.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that the insulated equipment, insulated tools, and aerial devices and platforms used by employees are designed, tested, and made for live-line barehand work.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that employees keep tools and equipment clean and dry while they are in use.
(v) The employer shall render inoperable the automatic-reclosing feature of circuit-interrupting devices protecting the lines if the design of the devices permits.
(vi) The employer shall ensure that employees do not perform work when adverse weather conditions would make the work hazardous even after the employer implements the work practices required by this section. Additionally, employees may not perform work when winds reduce the phase-to-phase or phase-to-ground clearances at the work location below the minimum approach distances specified in paragraph (q)(3)(xiv) of this section, unless insulating guards cover the grounded objects and other lines and equipment.
Note: Note to paragraph ( q )(3)( vi ): Thunderstorms in the vicinity, high winds, snow storms, and ice storms are examples of adverse weather conditions that make live-line barehand work too hazardous to perform safely even after the employer implements the work practices required by this section.
