§ 1910.134 Respiratory protection.
(2) The employer shall regularly consult employees required to use respirators to assess the employees' views on program effectiveness and to identify any problems. Any problems that are identified during this assessment shall be corrected. Factors to be assessed include, but are not limited to:
(i) Respirator fit (including the ability to use the respirator without interfering with effective workplace performance);
(ii) Appropriate respirator selection for the hazards to which the employee is exposed;
(iii) Proper respirator use under the workplace conditions the employee encounters; and
(iv) Proper respirator maintenance.
(m) Recordkeeping. This section requires the employer to establish and retain written information regarding medical evaluations, fit testing, and the respirator program. This information will facilitate employee involvement in the respirator program, assist the employer in auditing the adequacy of the program, and provide a record for compliance determinations by OSHA.
(1) Medical evaluation. Records of medical evaluations required by this section must be retained and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2) Fit testing. (i) The employer shall establish a record of the qualitative and quantitative fit tests administered to an employee including:
(A) The name or identification of the employee tested;
(B) Type of fit test performed;
(C) Specific make, model, style, and size of respirator tested;
(D) Date of test; and
(E) The pass/fail results for QLFTs or the fit factor and strip chart recording or other recording of the test results for QNFTs.
(ii) Fit test records shall be retained for respirator users until the next fit test is administered.
(3) A written copy of the current respirator program shall be retained by the employer.
(4) Written materials required to be retained under this paragraph shall be made available upon request to affected employees and to the Assistant Secretary or designee for examination and copying.
(n) Effective date. Paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) and (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section become effective November 22, 2006.
