§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
(iii) Storage bins where the side is more than 5 feet in depth shall be provided with standard stationary safety ladders, both inside and outside, to reach from floor level to top of bin and from top of bin to inside bottom, keeping the ladder end away from the moving screw conveyor.
(iv)-(v) [Reserved]
(vi) The main entrance cover of large storage bins located at the interior exit ladder shall be provided with an electric interlock for motors operating both feed and unloading screw, so that these motors cannot operate while the cover is open.
(7) Screw conveyors.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) The covers of all screw conveyors shall be made removable in convenient sections, held on with stationary clamps located at proper intervals keeping all covers dust-tight. Where drop or hinged bottom sections are provided this provision shall not apply.
(8) Sifters. (i) Enclosures of all types of flour sifters shall be so constructed that they are dust-tight but readily accessible for interior inspection.
(ii) [Reserved]
(9) Flour scales.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Traveling or track-type flour scales shall be equipped with bar handles for moving same. The bar should be at least 1 inch in diameter and well away from trolley track wheels.
(e) Mixers —(1) Horizontal dough mixers. (i) Mixers with external power application shall have all belts, chains, gears, pulleys, sprockets, clutches, and other moving parts completely enclosed.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Each mixer shall be equipped with an individual motor and control, and with a conveniently located manual switch to prevent the mixer from being started in the usual manner while the machine is being serviced and cleaned.
(iv) All electrical control stations shall be so located that the operator must be in full view of the bowl in its open position. No duplication of such controls other than a stop switch shall be permitted.
(v) All mixers with power and manual dumping arrangements shall be equipped with safety devices which shall:
( a ) Engage both hands of the operator, when the agitator is in motion under power, and while the bowl is opened more than one-fifth of its total opening.
