§ 1910.243 Guarding of portable powered tools.
(6) Excluded machinery. Natural sandstone wheels and metal, wooden, cloth, or paper discs, having a layer of abrasive on the surface are not covered by this paragraph.
(d) Explosive actuated fastening tools —(1) General requirements. (i) Explosive-actuated fastening tools that are actuated by explosives or any similar means, and propel a stud, pin, fastener, or other object for the purpose of affixing it by penetration to any other object shall meet the design requirements specified by paragraph (d)(2) of this section. This requirement does not apply to devices designed for attaching objects to soft construction materials, such as wood, plaster, tar, dry wallboard, and the like, or to stud-welding equipment.
(ii) Operators and assistants using tools shall be safeguarded by means of eye protection. Head and face protection shall be used, as required by working conditions, as set forth in subpart I.
(2) Inspection, maintenance, and tool handling —(i) High-velocity tools. Tools of this type shall have the characteristics outlined in ( a ) through ( h ) of this section.
( a ) The muzzle end of the tool shall have a protective shield or guard at least 3 1/2 inches in diameter, mounted perpendicular to and concentric with the barrel, and designed to confine any flying fragments or particles that might otherwise create a hazard at the time of firing.
( b ) Where a standard shield or guard cannot be used, or where it does not cover all apparent avenues through which flying particles might escape, a special shield, guard, fixture, or jig designed and built by the manufacturer of the tool being used, which provides this degree of protection, shall be used as a substitute.
( c ) The tool shall be so designed that it cannot be fired unless it is equipped with a standard protective shield or guard, or a special shield, guard, fixture, or jig.
( d )( 1 ) The firing mechanism shall be so designed that the tool cannot fire during loading or preparation to fire, or if the tool should be dropped while loaded.
( 2 ) Firing of the tool shall be dependent upon at least two separate and distinct operations of the operator, with the final firing movement being separate from the operation of bringing the tool into the firing position.
