§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(v) Electrical equipment and installations shall conform with paragraphs (b) (17) and (18) of this section. (14) Fire protection. (i) Each bulk plant shall be provided with at least one approved portable fire extinguisher having a minimum rating of 12-B, C. (ii) In industrial installations involving containers of 150,000 gallons aggregate water capacity or more, provision shall be made for an adequate supply of water at the container site for fire protection in the container area, unless other adequate means for fire control are provided. Water hydrants shall be readily accessible and so spaced as to provide water protection for all containers. Sufficient lengths of firehose shall be provided at each hydrant location on a hose cart, or other means provided to facilitate easy movement of the hose in the container area. It is desirable to equip the outlet of each hose line with a combination fog nozzle. A shelter shall be provided to protect the hose and its conveyor from the weather. (15) [Reserved] (16) Lighting. Electrical equipment and installations shall conform to paragraphs (b) (17) and (18) of this section. (17) Vaporizers for internal combustion engines. The provisions of paragraph (e)(8) of this section shall apply. (18) Gas regulating and mixing equipment for internal combustion engines. The provisions of paragraph (e)(9) of this section shall apply. (e) Liquefied petroleum gas as a motor fuel —(1) Application. (i) This paragraph applies to internal combustion engines, fuel containers, and pertinent equipment for the use of liquefied petroleum gases as a motor fuel on easily movable, readily portable units including self-propelled vehicles. (ii) Fuel containers and pertinent equipment for internal combustion engines using liquefied petroleum gas where installation is of the stationary type are covered by paragraph (d) of this section. This paragraph does not apply to containers for transportation of liquefied petroleum gases nor to marine fuel use. All requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply to this paragraph, unless otherwise noted in paragraph (b) of this section. (2) General. (i) Fuel may be used from the cargo tank of a truck while in transit, but not from cargo tanks on trailers or semitrailers. The use of fuel from the cargo tanks to operate stationary engines is permitted providing wheels are