§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(7) Chemical cleaning of boilers and pressure vessels. The following requirements apply to chemical cleaning of boilers and pressure vessels:
(i) Areas where chemical cleaning is in progress shall be cordoned off to restrict access during cleaning. If flammable liquids, gases, or vapors or combustible materials will be used or might be produced during the cleaning process, the following requirements also apply:
(A) The area shall be posted with signs restricting entry and warning of the hazards of fire and explosion; and
(B) Smoking, welding, and other possible ignition sources are prohibited in these restricted areas.
(ii) The number of personnel in the restricted area shall be limited to those necessary to accomplish the task safely.
(iii) There shall be ready access to water or showers for emergency use.
Note: Note to paragraph ( v )(7)( iii ): See § 1910.141 for requirements that apply to the water supply and to washing facilities.
(iv) Employees in restricted areas shall wear protective equipment meeting the requirements of Subpart I of this part and including, but not limited to, protective clothing, boots, goggles, and gloves.
(8) Chlorine systems. (i) Chlorine system enclosures shall be posted with signs restricting entry and warning of the hazard to health and the hazards of fire and explosion.
Note: Note to paragraph ( v )(8)( i ): See subpart Z of this part for requirements necessary to protect the health of employees from the effects of chlorine.
(ii) Only designated employees may enter the restricted area. Additionally, the number of personnel shall be limited to those necessary to accomplish the task safely.
(iii) Emergency repair kits shall be available near the shelter or enclosure to allow for the prompt repair of leaks in chlorine lines, equipment, or containers.
(iv) Before repair procedures are started, chlorine tanks, pipes, and equipment shall be purged with dry air and isolated from other sources of chlorine.
(v) The employer shall ensure that chlorine is not mixed with materials that would react with the chlorine in a dangerously exothermic or other hazardous manner.
