§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(vi) Whenever blasting is being conducted in the vicinity of gas, electric, water, fire alarm, telephone, telegraph, and steam utilities, the blaster shall notify the appropriate representatives of such utilities at least 24 hours in advance of blasting, specifying the location and intended time of such blasting. Verbal notice shall be confirmed with written notice.
(vii) Due precautions shall be taken to prevent accidental discharge of electric blasting caps from current induced by radar, radio transmitters, lightning, adjacent powerlines, dust storms, or other sources of extraneous electricity. These precautions shall include:
( a ) The suspension of all blasting operations and removal of persons from the blasting area during the approach and progress of an electric storm.
( b ) The posting of signs warning against the use of mobile radio transmitters on all roads within 350 feet of the blasting operations.
(2) Storage at use sites. (i) Empty containers and paper and fiber packing materials which have previously contained explosive materials shall be disposed of in a safe manner, or reused in accordance with the Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 177-180).
(ii) Containers of explosives shall not be opened in any magazine or within 50 feet of any magazine. In opening kegs or wooden cases, no sparking metal tools shall be used; wooden wedges and either wood, fiber or rubber mallets shall be used. Nonsparking metallic slitters may be used for opening fiberboard cases.
(iii) Explosives or blasting equipment that are obviously deteriorated or damaged shall not be used.
(iv) No explosives shall be abandoned.
(3) Loading of explosives in blast holes. (i) All drill holes shall be sufficiently large to admit freely the insertion of the cartridges of explosives.
(ii) Tamping shall be done only with wood rods without exposed metal parts, but nonsparking metal connectors may be used for jointed poles. Violent tamping shall be avoided. Primed cartridges shall not be tamped.
(iii) When loading blasting agents pneumatically over electric blasting caps, semiconductive delivery hose shall be used and the equipment shall be bonded and grounded.
(iv) No holes shall be loaded except those to be fired in the next round of blasting. After loading, all remaining explosives shall be immediately returned to an authorized magazine.
