§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( g ) [Reserved] Table H-18—Electrical Equipment Hazardous Areas—Bulk Plants ----------------------------------------------------------- Location Class I Group D division Extent of classified area ----------------------------------------------------------- Tank vehicle and tank car: 1 Loading through open dome 1 Within 3 feet of edge of dome, extending in all directions. 2 Area between 3 feet and 5 feet from edge of dome, extending in all directions. Loading through bottom connections with atmospheric venting 1 Within 3 feet of point of venting to atmosphere extending in all directions. 2 Area between 3 feet and 5 feet from point of venting to atmosphere, extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above grade within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from point of loading connection. Loading through closed dome with atmospheric venting 1 2 Within 3 feet of open end of vent, extending in all directions. Area between 3 feet and 5 feet from open end of vent, extending in all directions. Also within 3 feet of edge of dome, extending in all directions. Loading through closed dome with vapor recovery 2 Within 3 feet of point of connection of both fill and vapor lines, extending in all directions. Bottom loading with vapor recovery or any bottom unloading 2 Within 3 feet of point of connections extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above grade with in a horizontal radius of 10 feet from point of connection. Drum and container filling: Outdoors, or indoors with adequate ventilation 1 Within 3 feet of vent and fill opening, extending in all directions. 2 Area between 3 feet and 5 feet from vent or fill opening, extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above floor or grade level within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from vent or fill opening. Outdoors, or indoors with adequate ventilation 1 Within 3 feet of vent and fill opening, extending in all directions. 2 Area between 3 feet and 5 feet from vent or fill opening, extending in all directions. Also up to 18 inches above floor or grade level within a horizontal radius of 10 feet from vent or fill opening. Tank—Aboveground: Shell, ends, or roof and dike area 2 Within 10 feet from shell, ends, or roof of tank, Area inside dikes to level of top of dike. Vent 1 Within 5 feet of open end of vent, extending in all directions. 2 Area between 5 feet and 10 feet from open end of vent, extending in all directions. Floating roof 1 Area above the roof and within the shell. Pits: Without mechanical ventilation 1 Entire area within pit if any part is within a Division 1 or 2 classified area. With mechanical ventilation 2 Entire area within pit if any part is within a Division 1 or 2 classified area. Containing valves, fittings or piping, and not within a Division 1 or 2 classified area 2 Entire pit. Pumps, bleeders, withdrawal fittings, meters and similar devices: Indoors 2 Within 5 feet of any edge of such devices, extending in all directions. Also up to 3 feet above floor or