§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
( 6 ) The building anchors and stabilizer ties shall be capable of sustaining anticipated horizontal and vertical loads from winds specified for roof storage design which may act on the platform and wire ropes if the platform is stranded on a building face. If the building anchors have different spacing than the suspension wire rope or if the building requires different suspension spacings on one platform, one building anchor and stabilizer tie shall be capable of sustaining the wind loads.
Note: Note: See figure 2 in appendix B of this section for a description of a typical intermittent stabilization system.
(B) Button guide stabilization system.
( 1 ) Guide buttons shall be coordinated with platform mounted equipment of paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section.
( 2 ) Guide buttons shall be located horizontally on the building face so as to allow engagement of each of the guide tracks mounted on the platform.
( 3 ) Guide buttons shall be located in vertical rows on the building face for proper engagement of the guide tracks mounted on the platform.
( 4 ) Two guide buttons shall engage each guide track at all times except for the initial engagement.
( 5 ) Guide buttons which extend beyond the face of the building shall be free of sharp edges or points. Where cables, ropes and lifelines may be in contact with the building face, guide buttons shall not interfere with their handling or operation.
( 6 ) Guide buttons, connections and seals shall be capable of sustaining without damage at least the weight of the platform, or provision shall be made in the guide tracks or guide track connectors to prevent the platform and its attachments from transmitting the weight of the platform to the guide buttons, connections and seals. In either case, the minimum design load shall be 300 pounds (1334 n) per building anchor.
Note: Note: See paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section for relevant equipment provisions.
Note: Note: See figure 3 in appendix B of this section for a description of a typical button guide stabilization system.
