§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(5) Markings on containers. (i) Each container covered in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section shall be marked as specified in the following:
( a ) With a marking identifying compliance with, and other markings required by, the rules of the reference under which the container is constructed; or with the stamp and other markings required by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.
( b ) With notation as to whether the container is designed for underground or aboveground installation or both. If intended for both and different style hoods are provided, the marking shall indicate the proper hood for each type of installation.
( c ) With the name and address of the supplier of the container, or with the trade name of the container.
( d ) With the water capacity of the container in pounds or gallons, U.S. Standard.
( e ) With the pressure in p.s.i.g., for which the container is designed.
( f ) With the wording "This container shall not contain a product having a vapor pressure in excess of __ p.s.i.g. at 100 degrees F.," see subparagraph (14)(viii) of this paragraph.
( g ) With the tare weight in pounds or other identified unit of weight for containers with a water capacity of 300 pounds or less.
( h ) With marking indicating the maximum level to which the container may be filled with liquid at temperatures between 20 degrees F. and 130 degrees F., except on containers provided with fixed maximum level indicators or which are filled by weighing. Markings shall be increments of not more than 20 degrees F. This marking may be located on the liquid level gaging device.
( i ) With the outside surface area in square feet.
(ii) Markings specified shall be on a metal nameplate attached to the container and located in such a manner as to remain visible after the container is installed.
(iii) When LP-Gas and one or more other gases are stored or used in the same area, the containers shall be marked to identify their content. Marking shall conform to the marking requirements set forth in § 1910.253(b)(1)(ii).
