§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(vi) Hand removal of refuse. Provision for the daily removal of refuse shall be made in all operations not required to have an exhaust system or having refuse too heavy, bulky, or otherwise unsuitable to be handled by the exhaust system.
(21) Chippers —(i) Whole-log chippers. The feed system to the chipper shall be arranged so the operator does not stand in direct line with the chipper spout (hopper). The chipper spout shall be enclosed to a height of not less than 36 inches from the floor or the operator's platform. A safety belt and lifeline shall be worn by workmen when working at or near the spout unless the spout is guarded. The lifeline shall be short enough to prevent workers from falling into the chipper.
(ii) Hogs. ( a ) Hog mills shall be so designed and arranged that from no position on the rim of the chute shall the distance to the cutter knives be less than 40 inches.
( b ) Hog feed chutes shall be provided with suitable and approved baffles, which shall minimize material from being thrown from the mill.
( c ) Employees feeding hog mills shall be provided with safety belts and lines unless guarded.
(22) [Reserved]
(23) Bins, bunkers, hoppers, and fuel houses —(i) Guarding. Open bins, bunkers, and hoppers whose upper edges extend less than 3 feet above working level shall be equipped with standard handrails and toe boards, or have their tops covered by a substantial grill or grating with openings small enough to prevent a man from falling through.
(ii) Use of wheeled equipment to load bins. Where automotive or other wheeled equipment is used to move materials into bins, bunkers, and hoppers, adequate guard rails shall be installed along each side of the runway, and a substantial bumper stop provided when necessary.
(iii) Exits, lighting, and safety devices. Fuel houses and bins shall have adequate exits and lighting, and all necessary safety devices shall be provided and shall be used by persons entering these structures.
(iv) Walkways. Where needed, fuel houses and bins shall have a standard railed platform or walkway near the top.
