§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(vii) The chain saw shall be started with the chain brake engaged.
(viii) The chain saw shall be held with the thumbs and fingers of both hands encircling the handles during operation unless the employer demonstrates that a greater hazard is posed by keeping both hands on the chain saw in that particular situation.
(ix) The chain-saw operator shall be certain of footing before starting to cut. The chain saw shall not be used in a position or at a distance that could cause the operator to become off-balance, to have insecure footing, or to relinquish a firm grip on the saw.
(x) Prior to felling any tree, the chain-saw operator shall clear away brush or other potential obstacles which might interfere with cutting the tree or using the retreat path.
(xi) The chain saw shall not be used to cut directly overhead.
(xii) The chain saw shall be carried in a manner that will prevent operator contact with the cutting chain and muffler.
(xiii) The chain saw shall be shut off or the throttle released before the feller starts his retreat.
(xiv) The chain saw shall be shut down or the chain brake shall be engaged whenever a saw is carried further than 50 feet (15.2 m). The chain saw shall be shut down or the chain brake shall be engaged when a saw is carried less than 50 feet if conditions such as, but not limited to, the terrain, underbrush and slippery surfaces, may create a hazard for an employee.
(f) Machines —(1) General requirements. (i) The employer shall assure that each machine, including any machine provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition.
(ii) The employer shall assure that each machine, including any machine provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. Defects or damage shall be repaired or the unserviceable machine shall be replaced before work is commenced.
(iii) The employer shall assure that operating and maintenance instructions are available on the machine or in the area where the machine is being operated. Each machine operator and maintenance employee shall comply with the operating and maintenance instructions.
(2) Machine operation. (i) The machine shall be started and operated only by a designated person.
(ii) Stationary logging machines and their components shall be anchored or otherwise stabilized to prevent movement during operation.
(iii) The rated capacity of any machine shall not be exceeded.
