§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(1) Design pressure and construction of containers. The minimum design pressure for nonrefrigerated containers shall be 250 p.s.i.g.
(2) Container valves and accessories, filling and discharge connections. (i) Each filling connection shall be provided with combination back-pressure check valve and excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves; or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with either an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess flow valve.
(ii) All liquid and vapor connections to containers except filling pipes, safety relief connections, and liquid-level gaging and pressure gage connections provided with orifices not larger than No. 54 drill size as required in paragraphs (b)(6) (iv) and (v) of this section shall be equipped with excess-flow valves.
(iii) Each storage container shall be provided with a pressure gage graduated from 0 to 400 p.s.i. Gages shall be designated for use in ammonia service.
(iv) All containers shall be equipped with vapor return valves.
(3) Safety-relief devices. (i) Every container shall be provided with one or more safety-relief valves of the spring-loaded or equivalent type in accordance with paragraph (b)(9) of this section.
(ii) The rate of discharge of spring-loaded safety relief valves installed on underground containers may be reduced to a minimum of 30 percent of the rate of discharge specified in Table H-36. Containers so protected shall not be uncovered after installation until the liquid ammonia has been removed. Containers which may contain liquid ammonia before being installed underground and before being completely covered with earth are to be considered aboveground containers when determining the rate of discharge requirements of the safety-relief valves.
(iii) On underground installations where there is a probability of the manhole or housing becoming flooded, the discharge from vent lines shall be located above the high water level. All manholes or housings shall be provided with ventilated louvers or their equivalent, the area of such openings equalling or exceeding combined discharge areas of safety-relief valves and vent lines which discharge their content into the manhole housing.
(iv) Vent pipes, when used, shall not be restricted or of smaller diameter than the relief-valve outlet connection.
