§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(ii) When a pump is used to deliver products, automatic means shall be provided to prevent pressure in excess of the design working pressure of accessories, piping, and hose.
(iii) All pressure hose and couplings shall be inspected at regular intervals appropriate to this service. The hose and couplings shall be tested with the hose extended, and using the "inservice maximum operating pressures." Any hose showing material deteriorations, signs of leakage, or weakness in its carcass or at the couplings, shall be withdrawn from service and repaired or discarded.
(iv) Piping systems conveying flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) shall be of steel or other material having comparable properties of resistance to heat and physical damage. Piping systems shall be properly bonded and grounded.
(7) Spray liquid heaters. Electrically powered spray liquid heaters shall be approved and listed for the specific location in which used (see paragraph (c) of this section). Heaters shall not be located in spray booths nor other locations subject to the accumulation of deposits or combustible residue. If an electric motor is used, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(8) Pump relief. If flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) are supplied to spray nozzles by positive displacement pumps, the pump discharge line shall be provided with an approved relief valve discharging to a pump suction or a safe detached location, or a device provided to stop the prime mover if the discharge pressure exceeds the safe operating pressure of the system.
(9) Grounding. Whenever flammable liquids or liquids with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C) are transferred from one container to another, both containers shall be effectively bonded and grounded to prevent discharge sparks of static electricity.
(f) Protection —(1) Conformance. In sprinklered buildings, the automatic sprinkler system in rooms containing spray finishing operations shall conform to the requirements of § 1910.159. In unsprinklered buildings where sprinklers are installed only to protect spraying areas, the installation shall conform to such standards insofar as they are applicable. Sprinkler heads shall be located so as to provide water distribution throughout the entire booth.
