§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(4) Faceplates for flush-mounted snap switches. Snap switches mounted in boxes shall have faceplates installed so as to completely cover the opening and seat against the finished surface.
(5) Grounding. Snap switches, including dimmer switches, shall be effectively grounded and shall provide a means to ground metal faceplates, whether or not a metal faceplate is installed. However, if no grounding means exists within the snap-switch enclosure, or where the wiring method does not include or provide an equipment ground, a snap switch without a grounding connection is permitted for replacement purposes only. Such snap switches shall be provided with a faceplate of nonconducting, noncombustible material if they are located within reach of conducting floors or other conducting surfaces.
(d) Switchboards and panelboards —(1) Switchboards with exposed live parts. Switchboards that have any exposed live parts shall be located in permanently dry locations and shall be accessible only to qualified persons.
(2) Panelboard enclosures. Panelboards shall be mounted in cabinets, cutout boxes, or enclosures designed for the purpose and shall be dead front. However, panelboards other than the dead front externally-operable type are permitted where accessible only to qualified persons.
(3) Knife switches mounted in switchboards or panelboards. Exposed blades of knife switches mounted in switchboards or panelboards shall be dead when open.
(e) Enclosures for damp or wet locations —(1) Cabinets, cutout boxes, fittings, boxes, and panelboard enclosures. Cabinets, cutout boxes, fittings, boxes, and panelboard enclosures in damp or wet locations shall be installed so as to prevent moisture or water from entering and accumulating within the enclosures and shall be mounted so there is at least 6.35-mm (0.25-in.) airspace between the enclosure and the wall or other supporting surface. However, nonmetallic enclosures may be installed without the airspace on a concrete, masonry, tile, or similar surface. The enclosures shall be weatherproof in wet locations.
(2) Switches, circuit breakers, and switchboards. Switches, circuit breakers, and switchboards installed in wet locations shall be enclosed in weatherproof enclosures.
(f) Conductors for general wiring —(1) Insulation. All conductors used for general wiring shall be insulated unless otherwise permitted in this subpart.
