§ 1910.1045 Acrylonitrile.
(C) Any recommended limitations upon the employee's exposure to AN or upon the use of protective clothing and equipment such as respirators; and
(D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and any medical conditions which require further examination or treatment.
(ii) The employer shall instruct the physician not to reveal in the written opinion specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure to AN.
(iii) The employer shall provide a copy of the written opinion to the affected employee.
(o) Employee information and training —(1) Training program. (i) The employer shall train each employee exposed to AN above the action level, each employee whose exposures are maintained below the action level by engineering and work practice controls, and each employee subject to potential skin or eye contact with liquid AN in accordance with the requirements of this section. The employer shall institute a training program and ensure employee participation in the program.
(ii) Training shall be provided at the time of initial assignment, or upon institution of the training program, and at least annually thereafter, and the employer shall assure that each employee is informed of the following:
(A) The information contained in appendixes A and B;
(B) The quantity, location, manner of use, release, or storage of AN, and the specific nature of operations which could result in exposure to AN, as well as any necessary protective steps;
(C) The purpose, proper use, and limitations of respirators and protective clothing;
(D) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (n) of this section;
(E) The emergency procedures developed, as required by paragraph (i) of this section;
(F) Engineering and work practice controls, their function, and the employee's relationship to these controls; and
(G) A review of this standard.
(2) Access to training materials. (i) The employer shall make a copy of this standard and its appendixes readily available to all affected employees.
(ii) The employer shall provide, upon request, all materials relating to the employee information and training program to the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
