§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
( d ) Inspection, maintenance, and ventilation of the bilge area shall be provided to prevent accumulation of highly combustible materials.
( e ) Adequate ventilation shall be provided for the cabin area on enclosed cabin-type boats to prevent accumulation of harmful gases or vapors.
(v) Dry deck storage. ( a ) Dry deck storage areas shall be kept orderly and shall be maintained in a condition which is conducive to safe operation of mobile equipment.
( b ) Logs shall be stored in a safe and orderly manner, and roadways and traffic lanes shall be maintained at a width adequate for safe travel of log handling equipment.
( c ) Logs shall be arranged to minimize the chance of accidentally rolling from the deck.
(vi) Log hauls and slips. ( a ) Walkways along log hauls shall have a standard handrail on the outer edge, and cleats or other means to assure adequate footing and enable employees to walk clear of the log chute.
( b ) Log haul bull chains or cable shall be designed, installed, and maintained to provide adequate safety for the work need.
( c ) Log haul gear and bull chain drive mechanism shall be guarded.
( d ) Substantial troughs for the return strand of log haul chains shall be provided over passageways.
( e ) Log haul controls shall be located and identified to operate from a position where the operator will, at all times, be in the clear of logs, machinery, lines, and rigging. In operations where control is by lever exposed to incoming logs, the lever shall be arranged to operate the log haul only when moved toward the log slip or toward the log pond.
( f ) A positive stop shall be installed on all log hauls to prevent logs from traveling too far ahead in the mill.
( g ) Overhead protection shall be provided for employees working below logs being moved to the log deck.
( h ) Log wells shall be provided with safeguards to minimize the possibility of logs rolling back into well from log deck.
(3) Log decks —(i) Access. Safe access to the head rig shall be provided.
(ii) Stops. Log decks shall be provided with adequate stops, chains, or other safeguards to prevent logs from rolling down the deck onto the carriage or its runway.
(iii) Barricade. A barricade or other positive stop of sufficient strength to stop any log shall be erected between the sawyer's stand and the log deck.
