§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(22) [Reserved]
(23) Bins, bunkers, hoppers, and fuel houses —(i) Guarding. Open bins, bunkers, and hoppers whose upper edges extend less than 3 feet above working level shall be equipped with standard handrails and toe boards, or have their tops covered by a substantial grill or grating with openings small enough to prevent a man from falling through.
(ii) Use of wheeled equipment to load bins. Where automotive or other wheeled equipment is used to move materials into bins, bunkers, and hoppers, adequate guard rails shall be installed along each side of the runway, and a substantial bumper stop provided when necessary.
(iii) Exits, lighting, and safety devices. Fuel houses and bins shall have adequate exits and lighting, and all necessary safety devices shall be provided and shall be used by persons entering these structures.
(iv) Walkways. Where needed, fuel houses and bins shall have a standard railed platform or walkway near the top.
(24) Ropes, cables, slings, and chains —(i) Safe usage. Ropes, cables, slings, and chains shall be used in accordance with safe use practices recommended by the manufacturer or within safe limits recommended by the equipment manufacturer when used in conjunction with it.
(ii) Hooks. No open hook shall be used in rigging to lift any load where there is hazard from relieving the tension on the hook from the load or hook catching or fouling.
(iii) Work by qualified persons. Installation, inspection, maintenance, repair, and testing of ropes, cables, slings, and chains shall be done only by persons qualified to do such work.
(iv) Slings. Proper storage shall be provided for slings while not in use.
(v) Ropes or cables. ( a ) Wire rope or cable shall be inspected when installed and once each week thereafter, when in use. It shall be removed from hoisting or load-carrying service when kinked or when one of the following conditions exists:
( 1 ) When three broken wires are found in one lay of 6 by 6 wire rope.
( 2 ) When six broken wires are found in one lay of 6 by 19 wire rope.
( 3 ) When nine broken wires are found in one lay of 6 by 37 wire rope.
( 4 ) When eight broken wires are found in one lay of 8 by 19 wire rope.
( 5 ) When marked corrosion appears.
