§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(iv) Recognition, prevention and control of other safety and health hazards in the logging industry;
(v) Procedures, practices and requirements of the employer's work site; and
(vi) The requirements of this standard.
(4) Training of an employee due to unsafe job performance, or assignment of new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines, or vehicles; may be limited to those elements in paragraph (i)(3) of this section which are relevant to the circumstances giving rise to the need for training.
(5) Portability of training. (i) Each current employee who has received training in the particular elements specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section shall not be required to be retrained in those elements.
(ii) Each new employee who has received training in the particular elements specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section shall not be required to be retrained in those elements prior to initial assignment.
(iii) The employer shall train each current and new employee in those elements for which the employee has not received training.
(iv) The employer is responsible for ensuring that each current and new employee can properly and safely perform the work tasks and operate the tools, equipment, machines, and vehicles used in their job.
(6) Each new employee and each employee who is required to be trained as specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, shall work under the close supervision of a designated person until the employee demonstrates to the employer the ability to safely perform their new duties independently.
(7) First-aid training. (i) The employer shall assure that each employee, including supervisors, receives or has received first-aid and CPR training meeting at least the requirements specified in appendix B.
(ii) The employer shall assure that each employee's first-aid and CPR training and/or certificate of training remain current.
(8) All training shall be conducted by a designated person.
(9) The employer shall assure that all training required by this section is presented in a manner that the employee is able to understand. The employer shall assure that all training materials used are appropriate in content and vocabulary to the educational level, literacy, and language skills of the employees being trained.
