§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(iii) "No Smoking" signs in large letters on contrasting color background shall be conspicuously posted at all powder coating areas and powder storage rooms.
(5) Fixed electrostatic spraying equipment. The provisions of paragraph (h) of this section and other subparagraphs of this paragraph shall apply to fixed electrostatic equipment, except that electrical equipment not covered therein shall conform to paragraph (l)(1) of this section.
(6) Electrostatic hand spraying equipment. The provisions of paragraph (i) of this section and other subparagraphs of this paragraph, shall apply to electrostatic handguns when used in powder coating, except that electrical equipment not covered therein shall conform to paragraph (l)(1) of this section.
(7) Electrostatic fluidized beds. (i) Electrostatic fluidized beds and associated equipment shall be of approved types. The maximum surface temperature of this equipment in the coating area shall not exceed 150 degrees F. The high voltage circuits shall be so designed as to not produce a spark of sufficient intensity to ignite any powder-air mixtures nor result in appreciable shock hazard upon coming in contact with a grounded object under normal operating conditions.
(ii) Transformers, powerpacks, control apparatus, and all other electrical portions of the equipment, with the exception of the charging electrodes and their connections to the power supply shall be located outside of the powder coating area or shall otherwise conform to the requirements of paragraph (l)(1) of this section.
(iii) All electrically conductive objects within the charging influence of the electrodes shall be adequately grounded. The powder coating equipment shall carry a prominent, permanently installed warning regarding the necessity for grounding these objects.
(iv) Objects being coated shall be maintained in contact with the conveyor or other support in order to insure proper grounding. Hangers shall be regularly cleaned to insure effective contact and areas of contact shall be sharp points or knife edges where possible.
(v) The electrical equipment shall be so interlocked with the ventilation system that the equipment cannot be operated unless the ventilation fans are in operation.
(m) Organic peroxides and dual component coatings —(1) Conformance. All spraying operations involving the use of organic peroxides and other dual component coatings shall be conducted in approved sprinklered spray booths meeting the requirements of this section.
