§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
( d ) Plant piping shall contain shutoff valves located as close as practical to pump connections.
(vi) Compressors used for transferring or refrigerating ammonia shall be recommended for ammonia service by the manufacturer.
( a ) Compressors shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. working pressure.
( b ) Plant piping shall contain shutoff valves located as close as practical to compressor connections.
( c ) A relief valve large enough to discharge the full capacity of the compressor shall be connected to the discharge before any shutoff valve.
( d ) Compressors shall have pressure gages at suction and discharge graduated to at least one and one-half times the maximum pressure that can be developed.
( e ) Adequate means, such as drainable liquid trap, shall be provided on the compressor suction to minimize the entry of liquid into the compressor.
(vii) Loading and unloading systems shall be protected by suitable devices to prevent emptying of the storage container or the container being loaded or unloaded in the event of severance of the hose. Backflow check valves or properly sized excess flow valves shall be installed where necessary to provide such protection. In the event that such valves are not practical, remotely operated shutoff valves may be installed.
(13) Tank car unloading points and operations. (i) Provisions for unloading tank cars shall conform to the applicable recommendations contained in the DOT regulations.
(ii) The employer shall insure that unloading operations are performed by reliable persons properly instructed and given the authority to monitor careful compliance with all applicable procedures.
(iii) Caution signs shall be so placed on the track or car as to give necessary warning to persons approaching the car from open end or ends of siding and shall be left up until after the car is unloaded and disconnected from discharge connections. Signs shall be of metal or other suitable material, at least 12 by 15 inches in size and bear the words "STOP—Tank Car Connected" or "STOP—Men at Work" the word, "STOP," being in letters at least 4 inches high and the other words in letters at least 2 inches high.
(iv) The track of a tank car siding shall be substantially level.
(v) Brakes shall be set and wheels blocked on all cars being unloaded.
