§ 1910.184 Slings.
(ii) In synthetic fiber rope, eye splices shall consist of at least four full tucks, and short splices shall consist of at least eight full tucks, four on each side of the center line.
(iii) Strand end tails shall not be trimmed flush with the surface of the rope immediately adjacent to the full tucks. This applies to all types of fiber rope and both eye and short splices. For fiber rope under one inch in diameter, the tail shall project at least six rope diameters beyond the last full tuck. For fiber rope one inch in diameter and larger, the tail shall project at least six inches beyond the last full tuck. Where a projecting tail interferes with the use of the sling, the tail shall be tapered and spliced into the body of the rope using at least two additional tucks (which will require a tail length of approximately six rope diameters beyond the last full tuck).
(iv) Fiber rope slings shall have a minimum clear length of rope between eye splices equal to 10 times the rope diameter.
(v) Knots shall not be used in lieu of splices.
(vi) Clamps not designed specifically for fiber ropes shall not be used for splicing.
(vii) For all eye splices, the eye shall be of such size to provide an included angle of not greater than 60 degrees at the splice when the eye is placed over the load or support.
(4) End attachments. Fiber rope slings shall not be used if end attachments in contact with the rope have sharp edges or projections.
(5) Removal from service. Natural and synthetic fiber rope slings shall be immediately removed from service if any of the following conditions are present:
(i) Abnormal wear.
(ii) Powdered fiber between strands.
(iii) Broken or cut fibers.
(iv) Variations in the size or roundness of strands.
(v) Discoloration or rotting.
(vi) Distortion of hardware in the sling.
(6) Repairs. Only fiber rope slings made from new rope shall be used. Use of repaired or reconditioned fiber rope slings is prohibited.
(i) Synthetic web slings —(1) Sling identification. Each sling shall be marked or coded to show the rated capacities for each type of hitch and type of synthetic web material.
