§ 1910.423 Post-dive procedures.
(v) Illumination capability to light the interior.
(5) Treatment tables, treatment gas appropriate to the diving mode, and sufficient gas to conduct treatment shall be available at the dive location.
(6) A dive team member shall be available at the dive location during and for at least one hour after the dive to operate the decompression chamber (when required or provided).
(d) Record of dive. (1) The following information shall be recorded and maintained for each diving operation:
(i) Names of dive team members including designated person-in-charge;
(ii) Date, time, and location;
(iii) Diving modes used;
(iv) General nature of work performed;
(v) Approximate underwater and surface conditions (visibility, water temperature and current); and
(vi) Maximum depth and bottom time for each diver.
(2) For each dive outside the no-decompression limits, deeper than 100 fsw or using mixed gas, the following additional information shall be recorded and maintained:
(i) Depth-time and breathing gas profiles;
(ii) Decompression table designation (including modification); and
(iii) Elapsed time since last pressure exposure if less than 24 hours or repetitive dive designation for each diver.
(3) For each dive in which decompression sickness is suspected or symptoms are evident, the following additional information shall be recorded and maintained:
(i) Description of decompression sickness symptoms (including depth and time of onset); and
(ii) Description and results of treatment.
(e) Decompression procedure assessment. The employer shall:
(1) Investigate and evaluate each incident of decompression sickness based on the recorded information, consideration of the past performance of decompression table used, and individual susceptibility;
(2) Take appropriate corrective action to reduce the probability of recurrence of decompression sickness; and
(3) Prepare a written evaluation of the decompression procedure assessment, including any corrective action taken, within 45 days of the incident of decompression sickness.