§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(E) Two guide tracks shall be mounted on the platform and shall provide continuous contact with the building face.
(F) The load carrying components of the button guide stabilization system which transmit the load into the platform shall be capable of supporting the weight of the platform, or provision shall be made in the guide track connectors or platform attachments to prevent the weight of the platform from being transmitted to the platform attachments.
Note: Note: See figure III in appendix B of this section for a description of a typical button guide stabilization system.
(6) Supported equipment. (i) Supported equipment shall maintain a vertical position in respect to the face of the building by means other than friction.
(ii) Cog wheels or equivalent means shall be incorporated to provide climbing traction between the supported equipment and the building guides. Additional guide wheels or shoes shall be incorporated as may be necessary to ensure that the drive wheels are continuously held in positive engagement with the building guides.
(iii) Launch guide mullions indexed to the building guides and retained in alignment with the building guides shall be used to align drive wheels entering the building guides.
(iv) Manned platforms used on supported equipment shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(5)(ii)(A), (f)(5)(ii)(B), and (f)(5)(ii) (D) through (K) of this section covering suspended equipment.
(7) Suspension wire ropes and rope connections. (i) Each specific installation shall use suspension wire ropes or combination cable and connections meeting the specification recommended by the manufacturer of the hoisting machine used. Connections shall be capable of developing at least 80 percent of the rated breaking strength of the wire rope.
(ii) Each suspension rope shall have a "Design Factor" of at least 10. The "Design Factor" is the ratio of the rated strength of the suspension wire rope to the rated working load, and shall be calculated using the following formula:
ER25SE06.005
(iii) Suspension wire rope grade shall be at least improved plow steel or equivalent.
(iv) Suspension wire ropes shall be sized to conform with the required design factor, but shall not be less than 5/16 inch (7.94 mm) in diameter.
(v) No more than one reverse bend in six wire rope lays shall be permitted.
