§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(iii) Only a designated person shall give signals, except in an emergency.
(8) Overhead electric lines. (i) Logging operations near overhead electric lines shall be done in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.333(c)(3).
(ii) The employer shall notify the power company immediately if a felled tree makes contact with any power line. Each employee shall remain clear of the area until the power company advises that there are no electrical hazards.
(9) Flammable and combustible liquids. (i) Flammable and combustible liquids shall be stored, handled, transported, and used in accordance with the requirements of subpart H of part 1910.
(ii) Flammable and combustible liquids shall not be transported in the driver compartment or in any passenger-occupied area of a machine or vehicle.
(iii) Each machine, vehicle, and portable powered tool shall be shut off during fueling. Diesel-powered machines and vehicles may be fueled while they are at idle, provided that continued operation is intended and that the employer follows safe fueling and operating procedures.
(iv) Flammable and combustible liquids, including chain-saw and diesel fuel, may be used to start a fire, provided the employer assures that in the particular situation its use does not create a hazard for an employee.
(10) Explosives and blasting agents. (i) Explosives and blasting agents shall be stored, handled, transported, and used in accordance with the requirements of subpart H of part 1910.
(ii) Only a designated person shall handle or use explosives and blasting agents.
(iii) Explosives and blasting agents shall not be transported in the driver compartment or in any passenger-occupied area of a machine or vehicle.
(e) Hand and portable powered tools —(1) General requirements. (i) The employer shall assure that each hand and portable powered tool, including any tool provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition.
(ii) The employer shall assure that each tool, including any tool provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. At a minimum, the inspection shall include the following:
(A) Handles and guards, to assure that they are sound, tight-fitting, properly shaped, free of splinters and sharp edges, and in place;
(B) Controls, to assure proper function;
(C) Chain-saw chains, to assure proper adjustment;
