§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( h ) Pressure regulating and pressure reducing equipment if located within 10 feet of a direct fire vaporizer shall be separated from the open flame by a substantially airtight noncombustible partition or partitions.
( i ) Except as provided in ( c ) of this subdivision, the following minimum distances shall be maintained between direct fired vaporizers and the nearest important building or group of buildings:
( j ) Direct fired vaporizers shall not raise the product pressure above the design pressure of the vaporizer equipment nor shall they raise the product pressure within the storage container above the pressure shown in the second column of Table H-31.
( k ) Vaporizers shall not be provided with fusible plugs.
( l ) Vaporizers shall not have unprotected drains to sewers or sump pits.
(iv) Direct gas-fired tank heaters shall be constructed and installed as follows:
( a ) Direct gas-fired tank heaters, and tanks to which they are applied, shall only be installed above ground.
( b ) Tank heaters shall be permanently marked with the name of the manufacturer, the rated B.t.u. input to the burner, and the maximum vaporizing capacity in gallons per hour.
( c ) Tank heaters may be an integral part of a fuel storage container directly connected to the container liquid section, or vapor section, or both.
( d ) Tank heaters shall be provided with a means for manually turning off the gas to the main burner and pilot.
( e ) Tank heaters shall be equipped with an automatic safety device to shut off the flow of gas to main burners, if the pilot light should fail. When flow through pilot exceeds 2,000 B.t.u. per hour, the pilot also shall be equipped with an automatic safety device to shut off the flow of gas to the pilot should the pilot flame be extinguished.
( f ) Pressure regulating and pressure reducing equipment if located within 10 feet of a direct fired tank heater shall be separated from the open flame by a substantially airtight noncombustible partition.
( g ) The following minimum distances shall be maintained between a storage tank heated by a direct fired tank heater and the nearest important building or group of buildings:
( h ) No direct fired tank heater shall raise the product pressure within the storage container over 75 percent of the pressure set out in the second column of Table H-31.
