§ 1910.177 Servicing multi-piece and single piece rim wheels.
(b) Definitions. Barrier means a fence, wall or other structure or object placed between a single piece rim wheel and an employee during tire inflation, to contain the rim wheel components in the event of the sudden release of the contained air of the single piece rim wheel. Charts means the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration publications entitled "Demounting and Mounting Procedures for Tube-Type Truck and Bus Tires," "Demounting and Mounting Procedures for Tubeless Truck and Bus Tires," and "Multi-Piece Rim Matching Chart." These charts may be in manual or poster form. OSHA also will accept any other manual or poster that provides at least the same instructions, safety precautions, and other information contained in these publications, which is applicable to the types of wheels the employer is servicing. Installing a rim wheel means the transfer and attachment of an assembled rim wheel onto a vehicle axle hub. Removing means the opposite of installing. Mounting a tire means the assembly or putting together of the wheel and tire components to form a rim wheel, including inflation. Demounting means the opposite of mounting. Multi-piece rim wheel means the assemblage of a multi-piece wheel with the tire tube and other components. Multi-piece wheel means a vehicle wheel consisting of two or more parts, one of which is a side or locking ring designed to hold the tire on the wheel by interlocking components when the tire is inflated. Restraining device means an apparatus such as a cage, rack, assemblage of bars and other components that will constrain all rim wheel components during an explosive separation of a multi-piece rim wheel, or during the sudden release of the contained air of a single piece rim wheel. Rim manual means a publication containing instructions from the manufacturer or other qualified organization for correct mounting, demounting, maintenance, and safety precautions peculiar to the type of wheel being serviced. Rim wheel means an assemblage of tire, tube and liner (where appropriate), and wheel components. Service or servicing means the mounting and demounting of rim wheels, and related activities such as inflating, deflating, installing, removing, and handling. Service area means that part of an employer's premises used for the servicing of rim wheels, or any other place where an employee services rim wheels. Single piece rim wheel means the assemblage of single piece rim wheel with the tire and other components. Single piece wheel means a vehicle wheel consisting of one part, designed to hold the tire on the wheel when the tire is inflated. Trajectory means any potential path or route that a rim wheel component may travel during an explosive separation, or the sudden release of the pressurized air, or an area at which an airblast from a single piece rim wheel may be released. The trajectory may deviate from paths which are perpendicular to the assembled position of the rim wheel at the time of separation or explosion. (See appendix A for examples of trajectories.) Wheel means that portion of a rim wheel which provides the method of attachment of the assembly