§ 1910.268 Telecommunications.
(G) Modifications or additions to the derrick and its associated equipment that alter its capacity or affect its safe operation shall be made only with written certification from the manufacturer, or other equivalent entity, such as a nationally recognized testing laboratory, that the modification results in the equipment being safe for its intended use. Such changes shall require the changing and posting of revised capacity and instruction decals or plates. These new ratings or limitations shall be as provided by the manufacturer or other equivalent entity. (H) Wire rope used with derricks shall be of improved plow steel or equivalent. Wire rope safety factors shall be in accordance with American National Standards Institute B30.6-1969. (I) Wire rope shall be taken out of service, or the defective portion removed, when any of the following conditions exist: ( 1 ) The rope strength has been significantly reduced due to corrosion, pitting, or excessive heat, or ( 2 ) The thickness of the outer wires of the rope has been reduced to two-thirds or less of the original thickness, or ( 3 ) There are more than six broken wires in any one rope lay, or ( 4 ) There is excessive permanent distortion caused by kinking, crushing, or severe twisting of the rope. (k) Materials handling and storage —(1) Poles. When working with poles in piles or stacks, work shall be performed from the ends of the poles as much as possible, and precautions shall be taken for the safety of employees at the other end of the pole. During pole hauling operations, all loads shall be secured to prevent displacement. Lights, reflectors and/or flags shall be displayed on the end and sides of the load as necessary. The requirements for installation, removal, or other handling of poles in pole lines are prescribed in paragraph (n) of this section which pertains to overhead lines. In the case of hoisting machinery equipped with a positive stop loadholding device, it shall be permissible for the operator to leave his position at the controls (while a load is suspended) for the sole purpose of assisting in positioning the load prior to landing it. Prior to unloading steel, poles, crossarms, and similar material, the load shall be thoroughly examined to ascertain that the load has not shifted, that binders or stakes have not broken, and that the load is not otherwise hazardous to employees. (2) Cable reels. Cable reels in storage shall be checked or otherwise restrained when there is a possibility that they might accidentally