§ 1910.399 Definitions applicable to this subpart.
operating by its own mechanism when actuated by some impersonal influence, as, for example, a change in current strength, pressure, temperature, or mechanical configuration. Bare conductor. See Conductor. Barrier. A physical obstruction that is intended to prevent contact with equipment or live parts or to prevent unauthorized access to a work area. Bathroom. An area including a basin with one or more of the following: a toilet, a tub, or a shower. Bonding (Bonded). The permanent joining of metallic parts to form an electrically conductive path that ensures electrical continuity and the capacity to conduct safely any current likely to be imposed. Bonding jumper. A conductor that assures the necessary electrical conductivity between metal parts required to be electrically connected. Branch circuit. The circuit conductors between the final overcurrent device protecting the circuit and the outlets. Building. A structure that stands alone or is cut off from adjoining structures by fire walls with all openings therein protected by approved fire doors. Cabinet. An enclosure designed either for surface or flush mounting, and provided with a frame, mat, or trim in which a swinging door or doors are or can be hung. Cable tray system. A unit or assembly of units or sections and associated fittings forming a rigid structural system used to securely fasten or support cables and raceways. Cable tray systems include ladders, troughs, channels, solid bottom trays, and other similar structures. Cablebus. An assembly of insulated conductors with fittings and conductor terminations in a completely enclosed, ventilated, protective metal housing. Cell line. An assembly of electrically interconnected electrolytic cells supplied by a source of direct current power. Cell line attachments and auxiliary equipment. Cell line attachments and auxiliary equipment include, but are not limited to, auxiliary tanks, process piping, ductwork, structural supports, exposed cell line conductors, conduits and other raceways, pumps, positioning equipment, and cell cutout or bypass electrical devices. Auxiliary equipment also includes tools, welding machines, crucibles, and other portable equipment used for operation and maintenance within the electrolytic cell line working zone. In the cell line working zone, auxiliary equipment includes the exposed conductive surfaces of ungrounded cranes and crane-mounted cell-servicing equipment. Center pivot irrigation machine. A multi-motored irrigation machine that revolves around a central pivot and employs alignment switches or similar devices to control individual motors. Certified. Equipment is