§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( b ) Buildings, structures, or equipment under construction or undergoing major renovation provided the temporary piping meets the following conditions: ( 1 ) Liquid piping inside the building shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (b)(8) of this section, and shall not exceed three-fourths iron pipe size. Copper tubing with an outside diameter of three-fourths inch or less may be used provided it conforms to Type K of Specifications for Seamless Water Tube, ANSI H23.1-1970 (ASTM B88-69) (see Table H-24). All such piping shall be protected against construction hazards. Liquid piping inside buildings shall be kept to a minimum. Such piping shall be securely fastened to walls or other surfaces so as to provide adequate protection from breakage and so located as to subject the liquid line to lowest ambient temperatures. ( 2 ) A shutoff valve shall be installed in each intermediate branch line where it takes off the main line and shall be readily accessible. A shutoff valve shall also be placed at the appliance end of the intermediate branch line. Such shutoff valve shall be upstream of any flexible connector used with the appliance. ( 3 ) Suitable excess flow valves shall be installed in the container outlet line supplying liquid LP-Gas to the building. A suitable excess flow valve shall be installed immediately downstream of each shutoff valve. Suitable excess flow valves shall be installed where piping size is reduced and shall be sized for the reduced size piping. ( 4 ) Hydrostatic relief valves shall be installed in accordance with paragraph (b)(10)(xii) of this section. ( 5 ) The use of hose to carry liquid between the container and the building or at any point in the liquid line, except at the appliance connector, shall be prohibited. ( 6 ) Where flexible connectors are necessary for appliance installation, such connectors shall be as short as practicable and shall comply with paragraph (b)(8)(ii) or (9) of this section. ( 7 ) Release of fuel when any section of piping or appliances is disconnected shall be minimized by either of the following methods: ( i ) Using an approved automatic quick-closing coupling (a type closing in both directions when coupled in the fuel line), or ( ii ) Closing the valve nearest to the appliance and allowing the appliance to operate until the fuel