§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(ii) Relief valves shall be regularly operated to insure proper functioning. Relief valves for generating chambers shall be set to open at a pressure not in excess of 15 psig (103 kPa gauge pressure). Relief valves for hydraulic back pressure valves shall be set to open at a pressure not in excess of 20 psig (137 kPa gauge pressure).
(iii) Nonautomatic generators shall not be used for generating acetylene at pressures exceeding l psig (7 kPa gauge pressure), and all water overflows shall be visible.
(3) Location. The space around the generator shall be ample for free, unobstructed operation and maintenance and shall permit ready adjustment and charging.
(4) Stationary acetylene generators (automatic and nonautomatic). (i)(A) The foundation shall be so arranged that the generator will be level and so that no excessive strain will be placed on the generator or its connections. Acetylene generators shall be grounded.
(B) Generators shall be placed where water will not freeze. The use of common salt (sodium chloride) or other corrosive chemicals for protection against freezing is not permitted. (For heating systems see paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section.)
(C) Except when generators are prepared in accordance with paragraph (f)(7)(v) of this section, sources of ignition shall be prohibited in outside generator houses or inside generator rooms.
(D) Water shall not be supplied through a continuous connection to the generator except when the generator is provided with an adequate open overflow or automatic water shutoff which will effectively prevent overfilling of the generator. Where a noncontinuous connection is used, the supply line shall terminate at a point not less than 2 inches (5 cm) above the regularly provided opening for filling so that the water can be observed as it enters the generator.
(E) Unless otherwise specifically approved, generators shall not be fitted with continuous drain connections leading to sewers, but shall discharge through an open connection into a suitably vented outdoor receptacle or residue pit which may have such connections. An open connection for the sludge drawoff is desirable to enable the generator operator to observe leakage of generating water from the drain valve or sludge cock.
(ii)(A) Each generator shall be provided with a vent pipe.
