§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(iii) The employer shall protect temporary wiring and its connections against damage, accidental interruptions, and other hazards. To the maximum extent possible, the employer shall keep signal, control, ground, and power cables separate from each other.
(iv) If any employee will be present in the test area during testing, a test observer shall be present. The test observer shall be capable of implementing the immediate deenergizing of test circuits for safety purposes.
(6) Safety check. (i) Safety practices governing employee work at temporary or field test areas shall provide, at the beginning of each series of tests, for a routine safety check of such test areas.
(ii) The test operator in charge shall conduct these routine safety checks before each series of tests and shall verify at least the following conditions:
(A) Barriers and safeguards are in workable condition and placed properly to isolate hazardous areas;
(B) System test status signals, if used, are in operable condition;
(C) Clearly marked test-power disconnects are readily available in an emergency;
(D) Ground connections are clearly identifiable;
(E) Personal protective equipment is provided and used as required by Subpart I of this part and by this section; and
(F) Proper separation between signal, ground, and power cables.
(p) Mechanical equipment —(1) General requirements. (i) The critical safety components of mechanical elevating and rotating equipment shall receive a thorough visual inspection before use on each shift.
Note: Note to paragraph ( p )(1)( i ): Critical safety components of mechanical elevating and rotating equipment are components for which failure would result in free fall or free rotation of the boom.
(ii) No motor vehicle or earthmoving or compacting equipment having an obstructed view to the rear may be operated on off-highway jobsites where any employee is exposed to the hazards created by the moving vehicle, unless:
(A) The vehicle has a reverse signal alarm audible above the surrounding noise level, or
(B) The vehicle is backed up only when a designated employee signals that it is safe to do so.
