§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
(ii) Stop bumpers shall be installed on all delivery ends of conveyors, wherever manual removal of the product carried is practiced.
(iii) Where hazard of getting caught exists a sufficient number of stop buttons shall be provided to enable quick stopping of the conveyor.
(8)-(10) [Reserved]
(11) Ingredient premixers, emulsifiers, etc. (i) All top openings shall be provided with covers attached to the machines. These covers should be so arranged and interlocked that power will be shut off whenever the cover is opened to a point where the operator's fingers might come in contact with the beaters.
(ii) [Reserved]
(12) Chain tackle. (i) All chain tackle shall be marked prominently, permanently, and legibly with maximum load capacity.
(ii) All chain tackle shall be marked permanently and legibly with minimum support specification.
(iii) Safety hooks shall be used.
(13) Trough hoists, etc. (i) All hoists shall be marked prominently, permanently, and legibly with maximum load capacity.
(ii) All hoists shall be marked permanently and legibly with minimum support specifications.
(iii) Safety catches shall be provided for the chain so that the chain will hold the load in any position.
(iv) Safety hooks shall be used.
(14) Air-conditioning units.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) On large units with doors to chambers large enough to be entered, all door locks shall be operable from both inside and outside.
(15) Pan washing tanks.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) The surface of the floor of the working platform shall be maintained in nonslip condition.
(iii)-(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Power ventilated exhaust hoods shall be provided over the tanks.
(16)-(19) [Reserved]
(20) Bread coolers, rack type.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) All door locks shall be operable from both within and outside the cooler.
(21) [Reserved]
(22) Doughnut machines. Separate flues shall be provided, (i) for venting vapors from the frying section, and (ii) for venting products of combustion from the combustion chamber used to heat the fat.
(23) Open fat kettles. (i) The floor around kettles shall be maintained in nonslip condition.
