§ 1910.1028 Benzene.
(ii) The employer shall assure that all medical examinations and procedures are performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician and that all laboratory tests are conducted by an accredited laboratory.
(iii) The employer shall assure that persons other than licensed physicians who administer the pulmonary function testing required by this section shall complete a training course in spirometry sponsored by an appropriate governmental, academic or professional institution.
(iv) The employer shall assure that all examinations and procedures are provided without cost to the employee and at a reasonable time and place.
(2) Initial examination. (i) Within 60 days of the effective date of this standard, or before the time of initial assignment, the employer shall provide each employee covered by paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section with a medical examination including the following elements:
(A) A detailed occupational history which includes:
( 1 ) Past work exposure to benzene or any other hematological toxins,
( 2 ) A family history of blood dyscrasias including hematological neoplasms;
( 3 ) A history of blood dyscrasias including genetic hemoglobin abnormalities, bleeding abnormalities, abnormal function of formed blood elements;
( 4 ) A history of renal or liver dysfunction;
( 5 ) A history of medicinal drugs routinely taken;
( 6 ) A history of previous exposure to ionizing radiation and
( 7 ) Exposure to marrow toxins outside of the current work situation.
(B) A complete physical examination.
(C) Laboratory tests. A complete blood count including a leukocyte count with differential, a quantitative thrombocyte count, hematocrit, hemoglobin, erythrocyte count and erythrocyte indices (MCV, MCH, MCHC). The results of these tests shall be reviewed by the examining physician.
(D) Additional tests as necessary in the opinion of the examining physician, based on alterations to the components of the blood or other signs which may be related to benzene exposure; and
(E) For all workers required to wear respirators for at least 30 days a year, the physical examination shall pay special attention to the cardiopulmonary system and shall include a pulmonary function test.
