§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
Note: Note to paragraph ( j )(2): Guidelines for the examination, cleaning, repairing, and in-service testing of live-line tools are specified in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' IEEE Guide for Maintenance Methods on Energized Power Lines, IEEE Std 516-2009.
(k) Materials handling and storage —(1) General. Materials handling and storage shall comply with applicable material-handling and material-storage requirements in this part, including those in subpart N of this part.
(2) Materials storage near energized lines or equipment. (i) In areas to which access is not restricted to qualified persons only, materials or equipment may not be stored closer to energized lines or exposed energized parts of equipment than the following distances, plus a distance that provides for the maximum sag and side swing of all conductors and for the height and movement of material-handling equipment:
(A) For lines and equipment energized at 50 kilovolts or less, the distance is 3.05 meters (10 feet).
(B) For lines and equipment energized at more than 50 kilovolts, the distance is 3.05 meters (10 feet) plus 0.10 meter (4 inches) for every 10 kilovolts over 50 kilovolts.
(ii) In areas restricted to qualified employees, materials may not be stored within the working space about energized lines or equipment.
Note: Note to paragraph ( k )(2)( ii ): Paragraphs (u)(1) and (v)(3) of this section specify the size of the working space.
(l) Working on or near exposed energized parts. This paragraph applies to work on exposed live parts, or near enough to them to expose the employee to any hazard they present.
(1) General. (i) Only qualified employees may work on or with exposed energized lines or parts of equipment.
(ii) Only qualified employees may work in areas containing unguarded, uninsulated energized lines or parts of equipment operating at 50 volts or more.
(iii) Electric lines and equipment shall be considered and treated as energized unless they have been deenergized in accordance with paragraph (d) or (m) of this section.
