§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
(10)-(11) [Reserved] (12) Pan cooling towers. (i) Where pan cooling towers extend to two or more floors, a lockout switch shall be provided on each floor in order that mechanics working on the tower may positively lock the mechanism against starting. Only one start switch shall be used in the motor control circuit. (ii) [Reserved] (13) Chocolate melting, refining, and mixing kettles. Each kettle shall be provided with a cover to enclose the top of the kettle. The bottom outlet of each kettle shall be of such size and shape that the operator cannot reach in to touch the revolving paddle or come in contact with the shear point between the paddle and the side of the kettle. (14)-(16) [Reserved] (17) Peanut cooling trucks. Mechanically operated peanut cooling trucks shall have a grid-type cover over the entire top. (l) Ovens —(1) General location. (i)-(vi) [Reserved] (vii) Ovens shall be located so that possible fire or explosion will not expose groups of persons to possible injury. For this reason ovens shall not adjoin lockers, lunch or sales rooms, main passageways, or exits. (2) [Reserved] (3) Safeguards of mechanical parts. (i) Emergency stop buttons shall be provided on mechanical ovens near the point where operators are stationed. (ii) All piping at ovens shall be tested to be gastight. (iii) Main shutoff valves, operable separately from any automatic valve, shall be provided to permit turning off the fuel or steam in case of an emergency. ( a ) Main shutoff valves shall be located so that explosions, fires, etc. will not prevent access to these valves. ( b ) Main shutoff valves shall be locked in the closed position when men must enter the oven or when the oven is not in service. (4)-(7) [Reserved] (8) Electrical heating equipment. (i)-(ii) [Reserved] (iii) A main disconnect switch or circuit breaker shall be provided. This switch or circuit breaker shall be so located that it can be reached quickly and safely. The main switch or circuit breaker shall have provisions for locking it in the open position if any work on the electrical equipment or inside the oven must be performed. (9) General requirements. (i) Protecting devices shall be properly maintained and kept in