§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(iii) Standby cranes shall be inspected at least semi-annually in accordance with requirements of paragraph (j)(2) of this section and paragraph (m)(2) of this section.
(k) Testing —(1) Operational tests. (i) Prior to initial use all new and altered cranes shall be tested to insure compliance with this section including the following functions:
( a ) Hoisting and lowering.
( b ) Trolley travel.
( c ) Bridge travel.
( d ) Limit switches, locking and safety devices.
(ii) The trip setting of hoist limit switches shall be determined by tests with an empty hook traveling in increasing speeds up to the maximum speed. The actuating mechanism of the limit switch shall be located so that it will trip the switch, under all conditions, in sufficient time to prevent contact of the hook or hook block with any part of the trolley.
(2) Rated load test. Test loads shall not be more than 125 percent of the rated load unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer. The test reports shall be placed on file where readily available to appointed personnel.
(l) Maintenance —(1) Preventive maintenance. A preventive maintenance program based on the crane manufacturer's recommendations shall be established.
(2) Maintenance procedure. (i) Before adjustments and repairs are started on a crane the following precautions shall be taken:
( a ) The crane to be repaired shall be run to a location where it will cause the least interference with other cranes and operations in the area.
( b ) All controllers shall be at the off position.
( c ) The main or emergency switch shall be open and locked in the open position.
( d ) Warning or "out of order" signs shall be placed on the crane, also on the floor beneath or on the hook where visible from the floor.
( e ) Where other cranes are in operation on the same runway, rail stops or other suitable means shall be provided to prevent interference with the idle crane.
(ii) After adjustments and repairs have been made the crane shall not be operated until all guards have been reinstalled, safety devices reactivated and maintenance equipment removed.
