§ 1910.1096 Ionizing radiation.
(h) Exemptions for radioactive materials packaged for shipment. Radioactive materials packaged and labeled in accordance with regulations of the Department of Transportation published in 49 CFR Chapter I, are exempt from the labeling and posting requirements of this subpart during shipment, provided that the inside containers are labeled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
(i) Instruction of personnel, posting. (1) Employers regulated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall be governed by 10 CFR part 20 standards. Employers in a State named in paragraph (p)(3) of this section shall be governed by the requirements of the laws and regulations of that State. All other employers shall be regulated by the following:
(2) All individuals working in or frequenting any portion of a radiation area shall be informed of the occurrence of radioactive materials or of radiation in such portions of the radiation area; shall be instructed in the safety problems associated with exposure to such materials or radiation and in precautions or devices to minimize exposure; shall be instructed in the applicable provisions of this section for the protection of employees from exposure to radiation or radioactive materials; and shall be advised of reports of radiation exposure which employees may request pursuant to the regulations in this section.
(3) Each employer to whom this section applies shall post a current copy of its provisions and a copy of the operating procedures applicable to the work conspicuously in such locations as to insure that employees working in or frequenting radiation areas will observe these documents on the way to and from their place of employment, or shall keep such documents available for examination of employees upon request.
(j) Storage of radioactive materials. Radioactive materials stored in a nonradiation area shall be secured against unauthorized removal from the place of storage.
(k) Waste disposal. No employer shall dispose of radioactive material except by transfer to an authorized recipient, or in a manner approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or a State named in paragraph (p)(3) of this section.
(l) Notification of incidents —(1) Immediate notification. Each employer shall immediately notify the Assistant Secretary of Labor or his duly authorized representative, for employees not protected by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission by means of 10 CFR part 20; paragraph (p)(2) of this section, or the requirements of the laws and regulations of States named in paragraph (p)(3) of this section, by telephone or telegraph of any incident involving radiation which may have caused or threatens to cause:
