§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(ii) The total relieving capacity shall be the larger of:
( a ) Possible refrigeration system upset such as ( 1 ) cooling water failure, ( 2 ) power failure, ( 3 ) instrument air or instrument failure, ( 4 ) mechanical failure of any equipment, ( 5 ) excessive pumping rates.
( b ) Fire exposure determined in accordance with Compressed Gas Association (CGA) S-1, part 3, Safety Relief Device Standards for Compressed Gas Storage Containers, 1959, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6, except that "A" shall be the total exposed surface area in square feet up to 25 foot above grade or to the equator of the storage container if it is a sphere, whichever is greater. If the relieving capacity required for fire exposure is greater than that required by ( a ) of this subdivision, the additional capacity may be provided by weak roof to shell seams in containers operating at essentially atmospheric pressure and having an inherently weak roof-to-shell seam. The weak roof-to-shell seam is not to be considered as providing any of the capacity required in ( a ) of this subdivision.
(iii) If vent lines are installed to conduct the vapors from the relief valve, the back pressure under full relieving conditions shall not exceed 50 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure for pressure balanced valves or 10 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure for conventional valves. The vent lines shall be installed to prevent accumulation of liquid in the lines.
(iv) The valve or valve installation shall provide weather protection.
(v) Atmospheric storage shall be provided with vacuum breakers. Ammonia gas, nitrogen, methane, or other inert gases can be used to provide a pad.
(5) Protection of container appurtenances. Appurtenances shall be protected against tampering and physical damage.
(6) Reinstallation of refrigerated storage containers. Containers of such size as to require field fabrication shall, when moved and reinstalled, be reconstructed and reinspected in complete accordance with the requirements under which they were constructed. The containers shall be subjected to a pressure retest and if rerating is necessary, rerating shall be in accordance with applicable requirements.
(7) Damage from vehicles. Precaution shall be taken against damage from vehicles.
