§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(I) Understand basic chemical and toxicological terminology and behavior.
(iv) Hazardous materials specialist. Hazardous materials specialists are individuals who respond with and provide support to hazardous materials technicians. Their duties parallel those of the hazardous materials technician, however, those duties require a more directed or specific knowledge of the various substances they may be called upon to contain. The hazardous materials specialist would also act as the site liaison with Federal, state, local and other government authorities in regards to site activities. Hazardous materials specialists shall have received at least 24 hours of training equal to the technician level and in addition have competency in the following areas and the employer shall so certify:
(A) Know how to implement the local emergency response plan.
(B) Understand classification, identification and verification of known and unknown materials by using advanced survey instruments and equipment.
(C) Know of the state emergency response plan.
(D) Be able to select and use proper specialized chemical personal protective equipment provided to the hazardous materials specialist.
(E) Understand in-depth hazard and risk techniques.
(F) Be able to perform specialized control, containment, and/or confinement operations within the capabilities of the resources and personal protective equipment available.
(G) Be able to determine and implement decontamination procedures.
(H) Have the ability to develop a site safety and control plan.
(I) Understand chemical, radiological and toxicological terminology and behavior.
(v) On scene incident commander. Incident commanders, who will assume control of the incident scene beyond the first responder awareness level, shall receive at least 24 hours of training equal to the first responder operations level and in addition have competency in the following areas and the employer shall so certify:
(A) Know and be able to implement the employer's incident command system.
(B) Know how to implement the employer's emergency response plan.
(C) Know and understand the hazards and risks associated with employees working in chemical protective clothing.
(D) Know how to implement the local emergency response plan.
(E) Know of the state emergency response plan and of the Federal Regional Response Team.
(F) Know and understand the importance of decontamination procedures.
