§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(vi)( a ) LP-Gas dispensing devices shall be located not less than 10 feet from aboveground storage containers greater than 2,000 gallons water capacity. The dispensing devices shall not be less than 20 feet from any building (not including canopies), basement, cellar, pit, or line of adjoining property which may be built upon and not less than 10 feet from sidewalks, streets, or thoroughfares. No drains or blowoff lines shall be directed into or in proximity to the sewer systems used for other purposes.
( b ) LP-Gas dispensing devices shall be installed on a concrete foundation or as part of a complete storage and dispensing assembly mounted on a common base, and shall be adequately protected from physical damage.
( c ) LP-Gas dispensing devices shall not be installed within a building except that they may be located under a weather shelter or canopy provided this area is not enclosed on more than two sides. If the enclosing sides are adjacent to each other, the area shall be properly ventilated.
(vii) The dispensing of LP-Gas into the fuel container of a vehicle shall be performed by a competent attendant who shall remain at the LP-Gas dispenser during the entire transfer operation.
(12) Additional rules. There shall be no smoking on the driveway of service stations in the dispensing areas or transport truck unloading areas. Conspicuous signs prohibiting smoking shall be posted within sight of the customer being served. Letters on such signs shall be not less than 4 inches high. The motors of all vehicles being fueled shall be shut off during the fueling operations.
(13) Electrical. Electrical equipment and installations shall conform to paragraphs (b) (17) and (18) of this section.
(14) Fire protection. Each service station shall be provided with at least one approved portable fire extinguisher having at least an 8-B, C, rating.
(i) Scope —(1) Application. (i) Paragraph (b) of this section applies to installations made in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (g), and (h) of this section, except as noted in each of those paragraphs.
(ii) Paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section apply as provided in each of those paragraphs.
