§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(12) Cold deck. The term cold deck means a pile of logs stored for future removal.
(13) Crotch lines. The term crotch lines means two short lines attached to a hoisting line by a ring or shackle, the lower ends being attached to loading hooks.
(14) Dog (carriage dog). The term dog means a steel tooth, one or more of which are attached to each carriage knee to hold log firmly in place on carriage.
(15) Drag saw. The term drag saw means a power-driven, reciprocating crosscut saw mounted on suitable frame and used for bucking logs.
(16) Head block. The term head block means that part of a carriage which holds the log and upon which it rests. It generally consists of base, knee, taper set, and mechanism.
(17) Head rig. The term head rig means a combination of head saw and log carriage used for the initial breakdown of logs into timbers, cants, and boards.
(18) Hog. The term hog means a machine for cutting or grinding slabs and other coarse residue from the mill.
(19) Husk. The term husk means a head saw framework on a circular mill.
(20) Industrial truck. The term industrial truck means a mobile powerdriven truck or tractor.
(21) Kiln tender. The term kiln tender means the operator of a kiln.
(22) Lift truck. The term lift truck means an industrial truck used for lateral transportation and equipped with a power-operated lifting device, usually in the form of forks, for piling or unpiling lumber units or packages.
(23) Live rolls. The term live rolls means cylinders of wood or metal mounted on horizontal axes and rotated by power, which are used to convey slabs, lumber, and other wood products.
(24) Loading boom. The term loading boom means any structure projecting from a pivot point to guide a log when lifted.
(25) Log deck. The term Log deck means a platform in the sawmill on which the logs remain until needed for sawing.
(26) Lumber hauling truck. The term lumber hauling truck means an industrial truck, other than a lift truck or a carrier, used for the transport of lumber.
(27) Log haul. The term log haul means a conveyor for transferring logs to mill.
