§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(4) Special inspection of governors and secondary brakes. (i) Governors and secondary brakes shall be inspected and tested at intervals specified by the manufacturer/supplier but not to exceed every 12 months.
(ii) The results of the inspection and test shall confirm that the initiating device for the secondary braking system operates at the proper overspeed.
(iii) The results of the inspection and test shall confirm that the secondary brake is functioning properly.
(iv) If any hoisting machine or initiating device for the secondary brake system is removed from the equipment for testing, all reinstalled and directly related components shall be reinspected prior to returning the equipment installation to service.
(v) Inspection of governors and secondary brakes shall be performed by a competent person.
(vi) The secondary brake governor and actuation device shall be tested before each day's use. Where testing is not feasible, a visual inspection of the brake shall be made instead to ensure that it is free to operate.
(5) Suspension wire rope maintenance, inspection and replacement. (i) Suspension wire rope shall be maintained and used in accordance with procedures recommended by the wire rope manufacturer.
(ii) Suspension wire rope shall be inspected by a competent person for visible defects and gross damage to the rope before every use and after each occurrence which might affect the wire rope's integrity.
(iii) A thorough inspection of suspension wire ropes in service shall be made once a month. Suspension wire ropes that have been inactive for 30 days or longer shall have a thorough inspection before they are placed into service. These thorough inspections of suspension wire ropes shall be performed by a competent person.
(iv) The need for replacement of a suspension wire rope shall be determined by inspection and shall be based on the condition of the wire rope. Any of the following conditions or combination of conditions will be cause for removal of the wire rope:
(A) Broken wires exceeding three wires in one strand or six wires in one rope lay;
(B) Distortion of rope structure such as would result from crushing or kinking;
(C) Evidence of heat damage;
(D) Evidence of rope deterioration from corrosion;
(E) A broken wire within 18 inches (460.8 mm) of the end attachments;
(F) Noticeable rusting and pitting;
(G) Evidence of core failure (a lengthening of rope lay, protrusion of the rope core and a reduction in rope diameter suggests core failure); or
