§ 1910.147 The control of hazardous energy (lockout/tagout).
(ii) The employer shall certify that the periodic inspections have been performed. The certification shall identify the machine or equipment on which the energy control procedure was being utilized, the date of the inspection, the employees included in the inspection, and the person performing the inspection.
(7) Training and communication. (i) The employer shall provide training to ensure that the purpose and function of the energy control program are understood by employees and that the knowledge and skills required for the safe application, usage, and removal of the energy controls are acquired by employees. The training shall include the following:
(A) Each authorized employee shall receive training in the recognition of applicable hazardous energy sources, the type and magnitude of the energy available in the workplace, and the methods and means necessary for energy isolation and control.
(B) Each affected employee shall be instructed in the purpose and use of the energy control procedure.
(C) All other employees whose work operations are or may be in an area where energy control procedures may be utilized, shall be instructed about the procedure, and about the prohibition relating to attempts to restart or reenergize machines or equipment which are locked out or tagged out.
(ii) When tagout systems are used, employees shall also be trained in the following limitations of tags:
(A) Tags are essentially warning devices affixed to energy isolating devices, and do not provide the physical restraint on those devices that is provided by a lock.
(B) When a tag is attached to an energy isolating means, it is not to be removed without authorization of the authorized person responsible for it, and it is never to be bypassed, ignored, or otherwise defeated.
(C) Tags must be legible and understandable by all authorized employees, affected employees, and all other employees whose work operations are or may be in the area, in order to be effective.
(D) Tags and their means of attachment must be made of materials which will withstand the environmental conditions encountered in the workplace.
(E) Tags may evoke a false sense of security, and their meaning needs to be understood as part of the overall energy control program.
(F) Tags must be securely attached to energy isolating devices so that they cannot be inadvertently or accidentally detached during use.
(iii) Employee retraining.
