§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(iii) Log booms and ponds. ( a ) Walkways and floats shall be installed and securely anchored to provide adequate passageway for employees.
( b ) All regular boom sticks and foot logs shall be reasonably straight, with no protruding knots and bark, and shall be capable of supporting, above the water line at either end, the weight of an employee and equipment.
( c ) Permanent cable swifters shall be so arranged that it will not be necessary to roll boom sticks in order to attach or detach them.
( d ) Periodic inspection of cable or dogging lines shall be made to determine when repair or removal from service is necessary.
( e ) The banks of the log pond in the vicinity of the log haul shall be reinforced to prevent caving in.
( f ) Artificial log ponds shall be drained, cleaned, and refilled when unhealthy stagnation or pollution occurs.
( g ) Employees whose duties require them to work from boats, floating logs, boom sticks, or walkways along or on water shall be provided with and shall wear appropriate buoyant devices while performing such duties.
( h ) Stiff booms shall be two float logs wide secured by boom chains or other connecting devices, and of a width adequate for the working needs. Walking surfaces shall be free of loose material and maintained in good repair.
( i ) Boom sticks shall be fastened together with adequate crossties or couplings.
( j ) Floating donkeys or other power-driven machinery used on booms shall be placed on a raft or float with enough buoyancy to keep the deck well above water.
( k ) All sorting gaps shall have a substantial stiff boom on each side.
(iv) Pond boats and rafts. The applicable provisions of the Standard for Fire Protection for Motorcraft, NFPA No. 302—1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6, shall be complied with.
( a ) Decks of pond boats shall be covered with nonslip material.
( b ) Powered pond boats or rafts shall be provided with at least one approved fire extinguisher, and one lifering with line attached.
( c ) Boat fuel shall be transported and stored in approved safety containers. Refer to § 1910.155(c)(3) for definition of approved.
( d ) Inspection, maintenance, and ventilation of the bilge area shall be provided to prevent accumulation of highly combustible materials.
