§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(10) Portable tank containers (skid tanks). Where portable tank containers are used for farm storage they shall comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section. When portable tank containers are used in lieu of cargo tanks and are permanently mounted on tank motor vehicles for the transportation of ammonia, they shall comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
(g) Systems mounted on farm vehicles other than for the application of ammonia —(1) Application. This paragraph applies to containers of 1,200 gallons capacity or less and pertinent equipment mounted on farm vehicles (implements of husbandry) and used other than for the application of ammonia to the soil. Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted.
(2) Design pressure and classification of containers. (i) The minimum design pressure for containers shall be 250 p.s.i.g.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall be not less than three-sixteenths of an inch.
(3) Mounting containers. (i) A suitable "stop" or "stops" shall be mounted on the vehicle or on the container in such a way that the container shall not be dislodged from its mounting due to the vehicle coming to a sudden stop. Back slippage shall also be prevented by proper methods.
(ii) A suitable "hold down" device shall be provided which will anchor the container to the vehicle at one or more places on each side of the container.
(iii) When containers are mounted on four-wheel trailers, care shall be taken to insure that the weight is distributed evenly over both axles.
(iv) When the cradle and the tank are not welded together suitable material shall be used between them to eliminate metal-to-metal friction.
(4) Container appurtenances. (i) All containers shall be equipped with a fixed liquid-level gage.
(ii) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped with a pressure gage having a dial graduated from 0-400 p.s.i.
(iii) The filling connection shall be fitted with combination back-pressure check valve and excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves; or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with either an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess flow valve.
