§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( a ) The body shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
( b ) Vehicles used to transport bulk premixed blasting agents on public highways shall have closed bodies.
( c ) All moving parts of the mixing system shall be designed as to prevent a heat buildup. Shafts or axles which contact the product shall have outboard bearings with 1-inch minimum clearance between the bearings and the outside of the product container. Particular attention shall be given to the clearances on all moving parts.
( d ) A bulk delivery vehicle shall be strong enough to carry the load without difficulty and be in good mechanical condition.
(iii) Operation of bulk delivery vehicles shall conform to the requirements of this subdivision. These include the placarding requirements as specified by Department of Transportation.
( a ) The operator shall be trained in the safe operation of the vehicle together with its mixing, conveying, and related equipment. The employer shall assure that the operator is familiar with the commodities being delivered and the general procedure for handling emergency situations.
( b ) The hauling of either blasting caps or other explosives but not both, shall be permitted on bulk trucks provided that a special wood or nonferrous-lined container is installed for the explosives. Such blasting caps or other explosives shall be in DOT-specified shipping containers: see 49 CFR chapter I.
( c ) No person shall smoke, carry matches or any flame-producing device, or carry any firearms while in or about bulk vehicles effecting the mixing transfer or down-the-hole loading of blasting agents at or near the blasting site.
( d ) Caution shall be exercised in the movement of the vehicle in the blasting area to avoid driving the vehicle over or dragging hoses over firing lines, cap wires, or explosive materials. The employer shall assure that the driver, in moving the vehicle, has assistance of a second person to guide his movements.
( e ) No intransit mixing of materials shall be performed.
(iv) Pneumatic loading from bulk delivery vehicles into blastholes primed with electric blasting caps or other static-sensitive systems shall conform to the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) A positive grounding device shall be used to prevent the accumulation of static electricity.
( b ) A discharge hose shall be used that has a resistance range that will prevent conducting stray currents, but that is conductive enough to bleed off static buildup.
