§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(h) Portable ladders and platforms —(1) General. Requirements for portable ladders contained in subpart D of this part apply in addition to the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section, except as specifically noted in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. (2) Special ladders and platforms. Portable ladders used on structures or conductors in conjunction with overhead line work need not meet § 1910.25(d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(iii) or § 1910.26(c)(3)(iii). Portable ladders and platforms used on structures or conductors in conjunction with overhead line work shall meet the following requirements: (i) In the configurations in which they are used, portable ladders and platforms shall be capable of supporting without failure at least 2.5 times the maximum intended load. (ii) Portable ladders and platforms may not be loaded in excess of the working loads for which they are designed. (iii) Portable ladders and platforms shall be secured to prevent them from becoming dislodged. (iv) Portable ladders and platforms may be used only in applications for which they are designed. (3) Conductive ladders. Portable metal ladders and other portable conductive ladders may not be used near exposed energized lines or equipment. However, in specialized high-voltage work, conductive ladders shall be used when the employer demonstrates that nonconductive ladders would present a greater hazard to employees than conductive ladders. (i) Hand and portable power equipment —(1) General. Paragraph (i)(2) of this section applies to electric equipment connected by cord and plug. Paragraph (i)(3) of this section applies to portable and vehicle-mounted generators used to supply cord- and plug-connected equipment. Paragraph (i)(4) of this section applies to hydraulic and pneumatic tools. (2) Cord- and plug-connected equipment. Cord- and plug-connected equipment not covered by subpart S of this part shall comply with one of the following instead of § 1910.243(a)(5): (i) The equipment shall be equipped with a cord containing an equipment grounding conductor connected to the equipment frame and to a means for grounding the other end of the conductor (however, this option may not be used where the introduction of the ground into the