§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(iv) Walkways. Where needed, fuel houses and bins shall have a standard railed platform or walkway near the top.
(24) Ropes, cables, slings, and chains —(i) Safe usage. Ropes, cables, slings, and chains shall be used in accordance with safe use practices recommended by the manufacturer or within safe limits recommended by the equipment manufacturer when used in conjunction with it.
(ii) Hooks. No open hook shall be used in rigging to lift any load where there is hazard from relieving the tension on the hook from the load or hook catching or fouling.
(iii) Work by qualified persons. Installation, inspection, maintenance, repair, and testing of ropes, cables, slings, and chains shall be done only by persons qualified to do such work.
(iv) Slings. Proper storage shall be provided for slings while not in use.
(v) Ropes or cables. ( a ) Wire rope or cable shall be inspected when installed and once each week thereafter, when in use. It shall be removed from hoisting or load-carrying service when kinked or when one of the following conditions exists:
( 1 ) When three broken wires are found in one lay of 6 by 6 wire rope.
( 2 ) When six broken wires are found in one lay of 6 by 19 wire rope.
( 3 ) When nine broken wires are found in one lay of 6 by 37 wire rope.
( 4 ) When eight broken wires are found in one lay of 8 by 19 wire rope.
( 5 ) When marked corrosion appears.
( 6 ) Wire rope of a type not described herein shall be removed from service when 4 percent of the total number of wires composing such rope are found to be broken in one lay.
( b ) Wire rope removed from service due to defects shall be plainly marked or identified as being unfit for further use on cranes, hoists, and other load-carrying devices.
( c ) The ratio between the rope diameter and the drum, block, sheave, or pulley tread diameter shall be such that the rope will adjust itself to the bend without excessive wear, deformation, or injury. In no case shall the safe value of drums, blocks, sheaves, or pulleys be reduced when replacing such items unless compensating changes are made for rope used and for safe loading limits.
