§ 1910.1043 Cotton dust.
(2) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section:
(k) Recordkeeping —(1) Exposure measurements. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of all measurements required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include:
(A) A log containing the items listed in paragraph IV (a) of appendix A, and the dates, number, duration, and results of each of the samples taken, including a description of the procedure used to determine representative employee exposure;
(B) The type of protective devices worn, if any, and length of time worn; and
(C) The names, job classifications, and exposure levels of employees whose exposure the measurement is intended to represent.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least 20 years.
(2) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate medical record for each employee subject to medical surveillance required by paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include:
(A) The name and description of the duties of the employee;
(B) A copy of the medical examination results including the medical history, questionnaire response, results of all tests, and the physician's recommendation;
(C) A copy of the physician's written opinion;
(D) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to cotton dust;
(E) A copy of this standard and its appendices, except that the employer may keep one copy of the standard and the appendices for all employees, provided that he references the standard and appendices in the medical surveillance record of each employee; and
(F) A copy of the information provided to the physician as required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least 20 years.
(3) Availability. (i) The employer shall make all records required to be maintained by paragraph (k) of this section available to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying.
(ii) Employee exposure measurement records and employee medical records required by this paragraph shall be provided upon request to employees, designated representatives, and the Assistant Secretary in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020 (a) through (e) and (g) through (i).
