§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
load means the combined weight of workers, tools, equipment and other material which is permitted to be carried by the working platform at the installation, as stated on the load rating plate. Poured socket means the method of providing wire rope terminations in which the ends of the rope are held in a tapered socket by means of poured spelter or resins. Primary brake means a brake designed to be applied automatically whenever power to the prime mover is interrupted or discontinued. Prime mover means the source of mechanical power for a machine. Rated load means the manufacturer's recommended maximum load. Rated strength means the strength of wire rope, as designated by its manufacturer or vendor, based on standard testing procedures or acceptable engineering design practices. Rated working load means the combined static weight of men, materials, and suspended or supported equipment. Registered professional engineer means a person who has been duly and currently registered and licensed by an authority within the United States or its territories to practice the profession of engineering. Roof powered platform means a working platform where the hoist(s) used to raise or lower the platform is located on the roof. Roof rigged davit means a davit used to raise the suspended working platform above the building face being serviced. This type of davit can also be used to raise a suspended working platform which has been ground-rigged. Rope means the equipment used to suspend a component of an equipment installation, i.e., wire rope. Safe surface means a horizontal surface intended to be occupied by personnel, which is so protected by a fall protection system that it can be reasonably assured that said occupants will be protected against falls. Secondary brake means a brake designed to arrest the descent of the suspended or supported equipment in the event of an overspeed condition. Self powered platform means a working platform where the hoist(s) used to raise or lower the platform is mounted on the platform. Speed reducer means a positive type speed reducing machine. Stability factor means the ratio of the stabilizing moment to the overturning moment. Stabilizer tie means a flexible line connecting the building anchor and the suspension wire rope supporting the platform. Supported equipment means building maintenance equipment that is held or moved to its working position by means of attachment directly to the building or extensions of the building being maintained. Suspended equipment means building maintenance equipment that is suspended and raised or lowered to its working position by means of ropes or combination cables attached to some anchorage above the equipment. Suspended scaffold (swinging