§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(v) All inlet and outlet connections except safety relief valves, liquid level gaging devices and pressure gages on containers of 2,000 gallons water capacity, or more, and on any container used to supply fuel directly to an internal combustion engine, shall be labeled to designate whether they communicate with vapor or liquid space. Labels may be on valves. (vi) In lieu of an excess flow valve openings may be fitted with a quick-closing internal valve which, except during operating periods shall remain closed. The internal mechanism for such valves may be provided with a secondary control which shall be equipped with a fusible plug (not over 220 degrees F. melting point) which will cause the internal valve to close automatically in case of fire. (vii) Not more than two plugged openings shall be permitted on a container of 2,000 gallons or less water capacity. (viii) Containers of 125 gallons water capacity or more manufactured after July 1, 1961, shall be provided with an approved device for liquid evacuation, the size of which shall be three-fourths inch National Pipe Thread minimum. A plugged opening will not satisfy this requirement. (4) Safety devices. (i) All safety devices shall comply with the following: ( a ) All container safety relief devices shall be located on the containers and shall have direct communication with the vapor of space of the container. ( b ) In industrial and gas manufacturing plants, discharge pipe from safety relief valves on pipe lines within a building shall discharge vertically upward and shall be piped to a point outside a building. ( c ) Safety relief device discharge terminals shall be so located as to provide protection against physical damage and such discharge pipes shall be fitted with loose raincaps. Return bends and restrictive pipefittings shall not be permitted. ( d ) If desired, discharge lines from two or more safety relief devices located on the same unit, or similar lines from two or more different units, may be run into a common discharge header, provided that the cross-sectional area of such header be at least equal to the sum of the cross-sectional area of the individual discharge lines, and that the setting of safety relief valves are the same. ( e ) Each storage container of over 2,000 gallons water capacity shall be provided with a suitable pressure gage. ( f ) A final stage regulator of an LP-Gas system (excluding any appliance regulator) shall be equipped on the low-pressure side with a relief valve which is set