§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(v) An autoclave for decontamination of regulated waste shall be available within or as near as possible to the work area.
(vi) A ducted exhaust-air ventilation system shall be provided. This system shall create directional airflow that draws air into the work area through the entry area. The exhaust air shall not be recirculated to any other area of the building, shall be discharged to the outside, and shall be dispersed away from occupied areas and air intakes. The proper direction of the airflow shall be verified ( i.e. , into the work area).
(5) Training Requirements. Additional training requirements for employees in HIV and HBV research laboratories and HIV and HBV production facilities are specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ix).
(f) Hepatitis B vaccination and post-exposure evaluation and follow-up —(1) General. (i) The employer shall make available the hepatitis B vaccine and vaccination series to all employees who have occupational exposure, and post-exposure evaluation and follow-up to all employees who have had an exposure incident.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that all medical evaluations and procedures including the hepatitis B vaccine and vaccination series and post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, including prophylaxis, are:
(A) Made available at no cost to the employee;
(B) Made available to the employee at a reasonable time and place;
(C) Performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician or by or under the supervision of another licensed healthcare professional; and
(D) Provided according to recommendations of the U.S. Public Health Service current at the time these evaluations and procedures take place, except as specified by this paragraph (f).
(iii) The employer shall ensure that all laboratory tests are conducted by an accredited laboratory at no cost to the employee.
(2) Hepatitis B Vaccination. (i) Hepatitis B vaccination shall be made available after the employee has received the training required in paragraph (g)(2)(vii)(I) and within 10 working days of initial assignment to all employees who have occupational exposure unless the employee has previously received the complete hepatitis B vaccination series, antibody testing has revealed that the employee is immune, or the vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons.
