§ 1910.146 Permit-required confined spaces.
(12) The communication procedures used by authorized entrants and attendants to maintain contact during the entry; (13) Equipment, such as personal protective equipment, testing equipment, communications equipment, alarm systems, and rescue equipment, to be provided for compliance with this section; (14) Any other information whose inclusion is necessary, given the circumstances of the particular confined space, in order to ensure employee safety; and (15) Any additional permits, such as for hot work, that have been issued to authorize work in the permit space. (g) Training. (1) The employer shall provide training so that all employees whose work is regulated by this section acquire the understanding, knowledge, and skills necessary for the safe performance of the duties assigned under this section. (2) Training shall be provided to each affected employee: (i) Before the employee is first assigned duties under this section; (ii) Before there is a change in assigned duties; (iii) Whenever there is a change in permit space operations that presents a hazard about which an employee has not previously been trained; (iv) Whenever the employer has reason to believe either that there are deviations from the permit space entry procedures required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section or that there are inadequacies in the employee's knowledge or use of these procedures. (3) The training shall establish employee proficiency in the duties required by this section and shall introduce new or revised procedures, as necessary, for compliance with this section. (4) The employer shall certify that the training required by paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section has been accomplished. The certification shall contain each employee's name, the signatures or initials of the trainers, and the dates of training. The certification shall be available for inspection by employees and their authorized representatives. (h) Duties of authorized entrants. The employer shall ensure that all authorized entrants: (1) Know the hazards that may be faced during entry, including information on the mode, signs or symptoms, and consequences of the exposure; (2) Properly use equipment as required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section; (3) Communicate with the attendant as necessary to enable the attendant to monitor entrant status and to enable the attendant to alert entrants of the need to evacuate the space as required by paragraph (i)(6) of this section; (4) Alert