§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( e ) All electric motors and generators shall be provided with suitable overload protection devices. Electrical generators, motors, proportioning devices, and all other electrical enclosures shall be electrically bonded. The grounding conductor to all such electrical equipment shall be effectively bonded to the service-entrance ground connection and to all equipment ground connections in a manner so as to provide a continuous path to ground. (v) Mixing facilities shall comply with the fire prevention requirements of this subdivision. ( a ) The mixing, loading, and ingredient transfer areas where residues or spilled materials may accumulate shall be cleaned periodically. A cleaning and collection system for dangerous residues shall be provided. , ( b ) A daily visual inspection shall be made of mixing, conveying, and electrical equipment to establish that such equipment is in good operating condition. A program of systematic maintenance shall be conducted on regular schedule. ( c ) Heaters which are not dependent on the combustion process within the heating unit may be used within the confines of processing buildings, or compartments, if provided with temperature and safety controls and located away from combustible materials and the finished product. (4) Bulk delivery and mixing vehicles. (i) The design of vehicles shall comply with the requirements of this subdivision. ( a ) Vehicles used over public highways for the bulk transportation of water gels or of ingredients classified as dangerous commodities, shall meet the requirements of the Department of Transportation and shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (g)(6) of this section. ( b ) When electric power is supplied by a self-contained motor generator located on the vehicle the generator shall be at a point separate from where the water gel is discharged. ( c ) The design of processing equipment and general requirements shall conform to subparagraphs (3) (iii) and (iv) of this paragraph. ( d ) A positive action parking brake, which will set the wheel brakes on at least one axle shall be provided on vehicles when equipped with air brakes and shall be used during bulk delivery operations. Wheel chocks shall supplement parking brakes whenever conditions may require. (ii) Operation of bulk delivery and mixing vehicles shall comply with the requirements of this subdivision. ( a ) The placarding requirements contained in DOT regulations apply to vehicles carrying water gel explosives or blasting agents. ( b ) The operator shall be trained in the safe operation of the vehicle together with its mixing, conveying, and related equipment. He shall be familiar with the commodities being delivered and the general procedure for