§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(9) Levers. All levers carrying weights shall be constructed so that weights will not slip or fall off. (10) First dryer. Either a permanent guardrail or apron guard or both shall be installed in front of the first dryer in each section in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (11) Steam and hot-water pipes. All exposed steam and hot-water pipes within 7 feet of the floor or working platform or within 15 inches measured horizontally from stairways, ramps, or fixed ladders shall be covered with an insulating material, or guarded in such manner as to prevent contact. (12) Dryer gears. Dryer gears shall be guarded excepting where the oilers' walkway is removed out of reach of the gears' nips and spokes and hot pipes in accordance with American National Standard B15.1—1953 (reaffirmed 1958). (i) A guardrail shall be provided at broke holes in accordance with § 1910.23. (13) Broke hole. (i) A guardrail that complies with subpart D of this part shall be provided at broke holes. (ii) Where pulpers are located directly below the broke hole on a paper machine and where the broke hole opening is large enough to permit a worker to fall through, any employee pushing broke down the hole shall wear a safety belt attached to a safety belt line. The safety belt line shall be fastened in such a manner that it is impossible for the person to fall into the pulper. (iii) An alarm bell or a flashing light shall be actuated before dropping material through the broke hole. (14) Feeder belt. A feeder belt or other effective device shall be provided for starting paper through the calender stack. (15) Steps. Steps or ladders that comply with subpart D of this part and tread with nonslip surfaces shall be provided at each calendar stack. Handrails and hand grips complying with subpart D shall be provided at each calendar stack. (16) [Reserved] (17) Sole plates. All exposed sole plates between dryers, calenders, reels, and rewinders shall have a nonskid surface. (18) Nip points. The hazard of the nip points on all calender rolls shall be eliminated or minimized by means of an effective barrier device, or by feeding the paper into the rolls by means