§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( a ) The use of flammable liquids is incidental to the principal business, or
( b ) Where flammable liquids are handled or used only in unit physical operations such as mixing, drying, evaporating, filtering, distillation, and similar operations which do not involve chemical reaction. This paragraph shall not apply to chemical plants, refineries or distilleries.
(ii) Exceptions. Where portions of such plants involve chemical reactions such as oxidation, reduction, halogenation, hydrogenation, alkylation, polymerization, and other chemical processes, those portions of the plant shall be in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Incidental storage or use of flammable liquids —(i) Application. This subparagraph shall be applicable to those portions of an industrial plant where the use and handling of flammable liquids is only incidental to the principal business, such as automobile assembly, construction of electronic equipment, furniture manufacturing, or other similar activities.
(ii) Containers. Flammable liquids shall be stored in tanks or closed containers.
( a ) Except as provided in subdivisions ( b ) and ( c ) of this subdivision, all storage shall comply with paragraph (d) (3) or (4) of this section.
( b ) The quantity of liquid that may be located outside of an inside storage room or storage cabinet in a building or in any one fire area of a building shall not exceed:
( 1 ) 25 gallons of Category 1 flammable liquids in containers
( 2 ) 120 gallons of Category 2, 3, or 4 flammable liquids in containers
( 3 ) 660 gallons of Category 2, 3, or 4 flammable liquids in a single portable tank.
( c ) Where large quantities of flammable liquids are necessary, storage may be in tanks which shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii) Separation and protection. Areas in which flammable liquids are transferred from one tank or container to another container shall be separated from other operations in the building by adequate distance or by construction having adequate fire resistance. Drainage or other means shall be provided to control spills. Adequate natural or mechanical ventilation shall be provided.
