§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(a) Definitions applicable to this section. (1) A crawler crane consists of a rotating superstructure with power plant, operating machinery, and boom, mounted on a base, equipped with crawler treads for travel. Its function is to hoist and swing loads at various radii.
(2) A locomotive crane consists of a rotating superstructure with power-plant, operating machinery and boom, mounted on a base or car equipped for travel on railroad track. It may be self-propelled or propelled by an outside source. Its function is to hoist and swing loads at various radii.
(3) A truck crane consists of a rotating superstructure with powerplant, operating machinery and boom, mounted on an automotive truck equipped with a powerplant for travel. Its function is to hoist and swing loads at various radii.
(4) A wheel mounted crane (wagon crane) consists of a rotating superstructure with powerplant, operating machinery and boom, mounted on a base or platform equipped with axles and rubber-tired wheels for travel. The base is usually propelled by the engine in the superstructure, but it may be equipped with a separate engine controlled from the superstructure. Its function is to hoist and swing loads at various radii.
(5) An accessory is a secondary part or assembly of parts which contributes to the overall function and usefulness of a machine.
(6) Appointed means assigned specific responsibilities by the employer or the employer's representative.
(7) ANSI means the American National Standards Institute.
(8) An angle indicator (boom) is an accessory which measures the angle of the boom to the horizontal.
(9) The axis of rotation is the vertical axis around which the crane superstructure rotates.
(10) Axle means the shaft or spindle with which or about which a wheel rotates. On truck- and wheel-mounted cranes it refers to an automotive type of axle assembly including housings, gearing, differential, bearings, and mounting appurtenances.
(11) Axle (bogie) means two or more automotive-type axles mounted in tandem in a frame so as to divide the load between the axles and permit vertical oscillation of the wheels.
(12) The base (mounting) is the traveling base or carrier on which the rotating superstructure is mounted such as a car, truck, crawlers, or wheel platform.
