§ 1910.252 General requirements.
(10) Mercury. In confined spaces or indoors, welding or cutting operations involving metals coated with mercury-bearing materials, including paint, must be done using local exhaust ventilation or airline respirators unless atmospheric tests under the most adverse conditions show that employee exposure is within the acceptable concentrations specified by 29 CFR 1910.1000. Such operations, when done outdoors, must be done using respirators approved for this purpose by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84.
(11) Cleaning compounds —(i) Manufacturer's instructions. In the use of cleaning materials, because of their possible toxicity or flammability, appropriate precautions such as manufacturers instructions shall be followed.
(ii) Degreasing. Degreasing and other cleaning operations involving chlorinated hydrocarbons shall be so located that no vapors from these operations will reach or be drawn into the atmosphere surrounding any welding operation. In addition, trichloroethylene and perchlorethylene should be kept out of atmospheres penetrated by the ultraviolet radiation of gas-shielded welding operations.
(12) Cutting of stainless steels. Oxygen cutting, using either a chemical flux or iron powder or gas-shielded arc cutting of stainless steel, shall be done using mechanical ventilation adequate to remove the fumes generated.
(13) First-aid equipment. First-aid equipment shall be available at all times. All injuries shall be reported as soon as possible for medical attention. First aid shall be rendered until medical attention can be provided.
(d) Industrial applications —(1) Transmission pipeline —(i) General. The requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 1910.254 of this part shall be observed.
(ii) Field shop operations. Where field shop operations are involved for fabrication of fittings, river crossings, road crossings, and pumping and compressor stations the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and §§ 1910.253 and 1910.254 of this part shall be observed.
(iii) Electric shock. When arc welding is performed in wet conditions, or under conditions of high humidity, special protection against electric shock shall be supplied.
(iv) Pressure testing. In pressure testing of pipelines, the workers and the public shall be protected against injury by the blowing out of closures or other pressure restraining devices. Also, protection shall be provided against expulsion of loose dirt that may have become trapped in the pipe.
