§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(l) Emergency response by employees at uncontrolled hazardous waste sites —(1) Emergency response plan. (i) An emergency response plan shall be developed and implemented by all employers within the scope of paragraphs (a)(1) (i)-(ii) of this section to handle anticipated emergencies prior to the commencement of hazardous waste operations. The plan shall be in writing and available for inspection and copying by employees, their representatives, OSHA personnel and other governmental agencies with relevant responsibilities.
(ii) Employers who will evacuate their employees from the danger area when an emergency occurs, and who do not permit any of their employees to assist in handling the emergency, are exempt from the requirements of this paragraph if they provide an emergency action plan complying with 29 CFR 1910.38.
(2) Elements of an emergency response plan. The employer shall develop an emergency response plan for emergencies which shall address, as a minimum, the following:
(i) Pre-emergency planning.
(ii) Personnel roles, lines of authority, and communication.
(iii) Emergency recognition and prevention.
(iv) Safe distances and places of refuge.
(v) Site security and control.
(vi) Evacuation routes and procedures.
(vii) Decontamination procedures which are not covered by the site safety and health plan.
(viii) Emergency medical treatment and first aid.
(ix) Emergency alerting and response procedures.
(x) Critique of response and follow-up.
(xi) PPE and emergency equipment.
(3) Procedures for handling emergency incidents. (i) In addition to the elements for the emergency response plan required in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, the following elements shall be included for emergency response plans:
(A) Site topography, layout, and prevailing weather conditions.
(B) Procedures for reporting incidents to local, state, and federal governmental agencies.
(ii) The emergency response plan shall be a separate section of the Site Safety and Health Plan.
(iii) The emergency response plan shall be compatible and integrated with the disaster, fire and/or emergency response plans of local, state, and federal agencies.
(iv) The emergency response plan shall be rehearsed regularly as part of the overall training program for site operations.
(v) The site emergency response plan shall be reviewed periodically and, as necessary, be amended to keep it current with new or changing site conditions or information.
