§ 1910.268 Telecommunications.
(ii) Power shall not be applied to the antenna, nor shall the grounding switch be opened under any circumstances while the tag is affixed.
(iii)(A) Where no grounding switches are provided, grounding sticks shall be used, one on each side of line, and tags shall be placed on the grounding sticks, antenna switch, or plate power switch in a conspicuous place.
(B) When necessary to further reduce excessive radio frequency pickup, ground sticks or short circuits shall be placed directly on the transmission lines near the transmitter in addition to the regular grounding switches.
(C) In other cases, the antenna lines may be disconnected from ground and the transmitter to reduce pickup at the point in the field.
(iv) All radio frequency line wires shall be tested for pickup with an insulated probe before they are handled either with bare hands or with metal tools.
(v) The employer shall insure that the transmitting technician warn the riggers about adjacent lines which are, or may become energized.
(vi) The employer shall insure that when antenna work has been completed, the rigger in charge of the job returns to the transmitter, notifies the transmitting technician in charge that work has been completed, and personally removes the tag from the antenna ground switch.
(n) Overhead lines —(1) Handling suspension strand. (i) The employer shall insure that when handling cable suspension strand which is being installed on poles carrying exposed energized power conductors, employees shall wear insulating gloves and shall avoid body contact with the strand until after it has been tensioned, dead-ended and permanently grounded.
(ii) The strand shall be restrained against upward movement during installation:
(A) On joint-use poles, where there is an upward change in grade at the pole, and
(B) On non-joint-use poles, where the line croses under energized power conductors.
(2) Need for testing wood poles. Unless temporary guys or braces are attached, the following poles shall be tested in accordance with paragraph (n)(3) of this section and determined to be safe before employees are permitted to climb them:
(i) Dead-end poles, except properly braced or guyed "Y" or "T" cable junction poles,
