§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(g) Chemical processes of making pulp —(1) Sulfur burners. (i) Sulfur-burner houses shall be safely and adequately ventilated, and every precaution shall be taken to guard against dust explosion hazards and fires, in accordance with American National Standards Z9.2—1960 and Z12.12—1968. (ii) Nonsparking tools and equipment shall be used in handling dry sulfur. (iii) Sulfur storage bins shall be kept free of sulfur dust accumulation, in accordance with American National Standard Z9.2—1960. (iv) Sulfur-melting equipment shall not be located in the burner room. (2) Protection for employees (acid plants). (i) Supplied air respirators shall be strategically located for emergency and rescue use. (ii) The worker shall be provided with eye protection, a supplied air respirator and a personal fall protection system that meets the requirements of subpart I of this part, during inspection, repairs or maintenance of acid towers. The line shall be extended to an attendant stationed outside the tower opening. (3) Acid tower structure. Outside elevators shall be inspected daily during winter months when ice materially affects safety. Elevators, runways, stairs, etc., for the acid tower shall be inspected monthly for defects that may occur because of exposure to acid or corrosive gases. (4) Tanks (acid). (i) Tanks shall be free of acid and shall be washed out with water, and fresh air shall be blown into them before allowing men to enter. Men entering the tanks shall be provided with supplied air respirators, lifebelts, and attached lifelines. (ii) A man shall be stationed outside to summon assistance if necessary. All intake valves to a tank shall be blanked off or disconnected. (5) Clothing. Where lime slaking takes place, employees shall be provided with rubber boots, rubber gloves, protective aprons, and eye protection. A deluge shower and eye fountain shall be provided to flush the skin and eyes to counteract lime or acid burns. (6) Lead burning. When lead burning is being done within tanks, fresh air shall be forced into the tanks so that fresh air will reach the face of the worker first and the direction of the current will never be from the source of the fumes toward the face of the workers. Supplied air respirators (constant-flow type) shall be