§ 1910.21 Scope and definitions.
that is permanently attached to a structure, building, or equipment. Fixed ladders include individual-rung ladders, but not ship stairs, step bolts, or manhole steps. Grab bar means an individual horizontal or vertical handhold installed to provide access above the height of the ladder. Guardrail system means a barrier erected along an unprotected or exposed side, edge, or other area of a walking-working surface to prevent employees from falling to a lower level. Handrail means a rail used to provide employees with a handhold for support. Hoist area means any elevated access opening to a walking-working surface through which equipment or materials are loaded or received. Hole means a gap or open space in a floor, roof, horizontal walking-working surface, or similar surface that is at least 2 inches (5 cm) in its least dimension. Individual-rung ladder means a ladder that has rungs individually attached to a building or structure. An individual- rung ladder does not include manhole steps. Ladder means a device with rungs, steps, or cleats used to gain access to a different elevation. Ladder safety system means a system designed to eliminate or reduce the possibility of falling from a ladder. A ladder safety system usually consists of a carrier, safety sleeve, lanyard, connectors, and body harness. Cages and wells are not ladder safety systems. Low-slope roof means a roof that has a slope less than or equal to a ratio of 4 in 12 (vertical to horizontal). Lower level means a surface or area to which an employee could fall. Such surfaces or areas include, but are not limited to, ground levels, floors, roofs, ramps, runways, excavations, pits, tanks, materials, water, equipment, and similar surfaces and structures, or portions thereof. Manhole steps means steps that are individually attached to, or set into, the wall of a manhole structure. Maximum intended load means the total load (weight and force) of all employees, equipment, vehicles, tools, materials, and other loads the employer reasonably anticipates to be applied to a walking-working surface at any one time. Mobile means manually propelled or moveable. Mobile ladder stand (ladder stand) means a mobile, fixed-height, self-supporting ladder that usually consists of wheels or casters on a rigid base and steps leading to a top step. A mobile ladder stand also may have handrails and is designed for use by one employee at a time. Mobile ladder stand platform means a mobile, fixed-height, self-supporting unit having one or more standing platforms that are provided with means of access or egress. Open riser means the gap or space between treads of stairways that do not have upright or inclined members (risers). Opening means a gap or open space in a wall, partition, vertical walking-working surface, or similar surface that is at least 30 inches (76 cm) high and at least 18 inches (46 cm) wide, through which an employee can fall to a lower level. Personal fall arrest system means a system used to arrest an employee in a fall from a walking-working surface. It consists of a body harness, anchorage, and connector. The means of connection may