§ 1910.125 Additional requirements for dipping and coating operations that use flammable liquids or liquids with flashpoints greater than 199.4 degrees F (93 degrees C).
(ii) Is properly trapped; (iii) Has pipes that permit the dip tank's contents to be removed within five minutes after a fire begins; and (iv) Discharges to a safe location. (3) Any bottom drain you provide must be capable of manual and automatic operation, and manual operation must be from a safe and accessible location. (4) You must ensure that automatic pumps are used when gravity flow from the bottom drain is impractical. (d) When must my conveyor system shut down automatically? If your conveyor system is used with a dip tank, the system must shut down automatically: (1) If there is a fire; or (2) If the ventilation rate drops below what is required by paragraph (b) of § 1910.124. (e) What ignition and fuel sources must be controlled? (1) In each vapor area and any adjacent area, you must ensure that: (i) All electrical wiring and equipment conform to the applicable hazardous (classified)-area requirements of subpart S of this part (except as specifically permitted in paragraph (g) of § 1910.126); and (ii) There are no flames, spark-producing devices, or other surfaces that are hot enough to ignite vapors. (2) You must ensure that any portable container used to add liquid to the tank is electrically bonded to the dip tank and positively grounded to prevent static electrical sparks or arcs. (3) You must ensure that a heating system that is used in a drying operation and could cause ignition: (i) Is installed in accordance with NFPA 86A-1969, Standard for Ovens and Furnaces (which is incorporated by reference in § 1910.6 of this part); (ii) Has adequate mechanical ventilation that operates before and during the drying operation; and (iii) Shuts down automatically if any ventilating fan fails to maintain adequate ventilation. (4) You also must ensure that: (i) All vapor areas are free of combustible debris and as free as practicable of combustible stock; (ii) Rags and other material contaminated with liquids from dipping or coating operations are placed in approved waste cans immediately after use; and (iii) Waste can contents are properly disposed of at the end of each shift. (5) You must prohibit smoking in