§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
(iii) Maintain records of the corrective actions in accordance with paragraph (n) of this section.
(f) Regulated areas —(1) Establishment —(i) Airborne exposures. The employer shall establish regulated areas where airborne concentrations of MDA exceed or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the permissible exposure limits.
(ii) Dermal exposures. Where employees are subject to dermal exposure to MDA the employer shall establish those work areas as regulated areas.
(2) Demarcation. Regulated areas shall be demarcated from the rest of the workplace in a manner that minimizes the number of persons potentially exposed.
(3) Access. Access to regulated areas shall be limited to authorized persons.
(4) Personal protective equipment and clothing. Each person entering a regulated area shall be supplied with, and required to use, the appropriate personal protective clothing and equipment in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
(5) Prohibited activities. The employer shall ensure that employees do not eat, drink, smoke, chew tobacco or gum, or apply cosmetics in regulated areas.
(g) Methods of compliance —(1) Engineering controls and work practices. (i) The employer shall institute engineering controls and work practices to reduce and maintain employee exposure to MDA at or below the PELs except to the extent that the employer can establish that these controls are not feasible or where the provisions of paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (h)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section apply.
(ii) Wherever the feasible engineering controls and work practices which can be instituted are not sufficient to reduce employee exposure to or below the PELs, the employer shall use them to reduce employee exposure to the lowest levels achievable by these controls and shall supplement them by the use of respiratory protective devices which comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Compliance program. (i) The employer shall establish and implement a written program to reduce employee exposure to or below the PELs by means of engineering and work practice controls, as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and by use of respiratory protection where permitted under this section. The program shall include a schedule for periodic maintenance (e.g., leak detection) and shall include the written plan for emergency situations as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
