§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(iii) The employer shall short circuit any line connected to capacitors before the line is treated as deenergized. (2) Current transformer secondaries. The employer shall ensure that employees do not open the secondary of a current transformer while the transformer is energized. If the employer cannot deenergize the primary of the current transformer before employees perform work on an instrument, a relay, or other section of a current transformer secondary circuit, the employer shall bridge the circuit so that the current transformer secondary does not experience an open-circuit condition. (3) Series streetlighting. (i) If the open-circuit voltage exceeds 600 volts, the employer shall ensure that employees work on series streetlighting circuits in accordance with paragraph (q) or (t) of this section, as appropriate. (ii) Before any employee opens a series loop, the employer shall deenergize the streetlighting transformer and isolate it from the source of supply or shall bridge the loop to avoid an open-circuit condition. (4) Illumination. The employer shall provide sufficient illumination to enable the employee to perform the work safely. (5) Protection against drowning. (i) Whenever an employee may be pulled or pushed, or might fall, into water where the danger of drowning exists, the employer shall provide the employee with, and shall ensure that the employee uses, a U.S. Coast Guard-approved personal flotation device. (ii) The employer shall maintain each personal flotation device in safe condition and shall inspect each personal flotation device frequently enough to ensure that it does not have rot, mildew, water saturation, or any other condition that could render the device unsuitable for use. (iii) An employee may cross streams or other bodies of water only if a safe means of passage, such as a bridge, is available. (6) Employee protection in public work areas. (i) Traffic-control signs and traffic-control devices used for the protection of employees shall meet § 1926.200(g)(2) of this chapter. (ii) Before employees begin work in the vicinity of vehicular or pedestrian traffic that may endanger them, the employer shall place warning signs or flags and other traffic-control devices in conspicuous locations to alert and channel approaching traffic. (iii) The employer shall use barricades where additional employee protection is necessary. (iv) The