§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
(ii) The written opinion obtained by the employer shall not reveal specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposures.
(9) Medical removal —(i) Temporary medical removal of an employee —(A) Temporary removal resulting from occupational exposure. The employee shall be removed from work environments in which exposure to MDA is at or above the action level or where dermal exposure to MDA may occur, following an initial examination (paragraph (m)(2) of this section), periodic examinations (paragraph (m)(3) of this section), an emergency situation paragraph (m)(4) of this section, or an additional examination (paragraph (m)(5) of this section) in the following circumstances:
( 1 ) When the employee exhibits signs and/or symptoms indicative of acute exposure to MDA; or
( 2 ) When the examining physician determines that an employee's abnormal liver function tests are not associated with MDA exposure but that the abnormalities may be exacerbated as a result of occupational exposure to MDA.
(B) Temporary removal due to a final medical determination. (1) The employer shall remove an employee from work environments in which exposure to MDA is at or above the action level or where dermal exposure to MDA may occur, on each occasion that there is a final medical determination or opinion that the employee has a detected medical condition which places the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to MDA.
( 2 ) For the purposes of this section, the phrase "final medical determination" shall mean the outcome of the physician review mechanism used pursuant to the medical surveillance provisions of this section.
( 3 ) Where a final medical determination results in any recommended special protective measures for an employee, or limitations on an employee's exposure to MDA, the employer shall implement and act consistent with the recommendation.
(ii) Return of the employee to former job status. (A) The employer shall return an employee to his or her former job status:
( 1 ) When the employee no longer shows signs or symptoms of exposure to MDA, or upon the advice of the physician.
( 2 ) When a subsequent final medical determination results in a medical finding, determination, or opinion that the employee no longer has a detected medical condition which places the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to MDA.
