§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(iii) The controller operating handle shall be located within convenient reach of the operator.
(iv) As far as practicable, the movement of each controller handle shall be in the same general directions as the resultant movements of the load.
(v) The control for the bridge and trolley travel shall be so located that the operator can readily face the direction of travel.
(vi) For floor-operated cranes, the controller or controllers if rope operated, shall automatically return to the "off" position when released by the operator.
(vii) Pushbuttons in pendant stations shall return to the "off" position when pressure is released by the crane operator.
(viii) Automatic cranes shall be so designed that all motions shall fail-safe if any malfunction of operation occurs.
(ix) Remote-operated cranes shall function so that if the control signal for any crane motion becomes ineffective the crane motion shall stop.
(4) Resistors. (i) Enclosures for resistors shall have openings to provide adequate ventilation, and shall be installed to prevent the accumulation of combustible matter too near to hot parts.
(ii) Resistor units shall be supported so as to be as free as possible from vibration.
(iii) Provision shall be made to prevent broken parts or molten metal falling upon the operator or from the crane.
(5) Switches. (i) The power supply to the runway conductors shall be controlled by a switch or circuit breaker located on a fixed structure, accessible from the floor, and arranged to be locked in the open position.
(ii) On cab-operated cranes a switch or circuit breaker of the enclosed type, with provision for locking in the open position, shall be provided in the leads from the runway conductors. A means of opening this switch or circuit breaker shall be located within easy reach of the operator.
(iii) On floor-operated cranes, a switch or circuit breaker of the enclosed type, with provision for locking in the open position, shall be provided in the leads from the runway conductors. This disconnect shall be mounted on the bridge or footwalk near the runway collectors. One of the following types of floor-operated disconnects shall be provided:
( a ) Nonconductive rope attached to the main disconnect switch.
