§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(i) Pre-emergency planning.
(ii) Personnel roles, lines of authority, and communication.
(iii) Emergency recognition and prevention.
(iv) Safe distances and places of refuge.
(v) Site security and control.
(vi) Evacuation routes and procedures.
(vii) Decontamination procedures which are not covered by the site safety and health plan.
(viii) Emergency medical treatment and first aid.
(ix) Emergency alerting and response procedures.
(x) Critique of response and follow-up.
(xi) PPE and emergency equipment.
(3) Procedures for handling emergency incidents. (i) In addition to the elements for the emergency response plan required in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, the following elements shall be included for emergency response plans:
(A) Site topography, layout, and prevailing weather conditions.
(B) Procedures for reporting incidents to local, state, and federal governmental agencies.
(ii) The emergency response plan shall be a separate section of the Site Safety and Health Plan.
(iii) The emergency response plan shall be compatible and integrated with the disaster, fire and/or emergency response plans of local, state, and federal agencies.
(iv) The emergency response plan shall be rehearsed regularly as part of the overall training program for site operations.
(v) The site emergency response plan shall be reviewed periodically and, as necessary, be amended to keep it current with new or changing site conditions or information.
(vi) An employee alarm system shall be installed in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.165 to notify employees of an emergency situation; to stop work activities if necessary; to lower background noise in order to speed communication; and to begin emergency procedures.
(vii) Based upon the information available at time of the emergency, the employer shall evaluate the incident and the site response capabilities and proceed with the appropriate steps to implement the site emergency response plan.
