§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(v) The drying apparatus shall contain a prominently located, permanently attached warning sign indicating that ventilation should be maintained during the drying period and that spraying should not be conducted in the vicinity that spray will deposit on apparatus.
(k) Automobile undercoating in garages. Automobile undercoating spray operations in garages, conducted in areas having adequate natural or mechanical ventilation, are exempt from the requirements pertaining to spray finishing operations, when using undercoating materials not more hazardous than kerosene (as listed by Underwriters' Laboratories in respect to fire hazard rating 30-40) or undercoating materials using only solvents listed as having a flash point in excess of 100 degrees F. Undercoating spray operations not conforming to these provisions are subject to all requirements of this section pertaining to spray finishing operations.
(l) Powder coating —(1) Electrical and other sources of ignition. Electrical equipment and other sources of ignition shall conform to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) (i)-(iv), (8) and (9)(i) of this section and subpart S of this part.
(2) Ventilation. (i) In addition to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, where applicable, exhaust ventilation shall be sufficient to maintain the atmosphere below the lowest explosive limits for the materials being applied. All nondeposited air-suspended powders shall be safely removed via exhaust ducts to the powder recovery cyclone or receptacle. Each installation shall be designed and operated to meet the foregoing performance specification.
(ii) Powders shall not be released to the outside atmosphere.
(3) Drying, curing, or fusion equipment. The provisions of the Standard for ovens and furnaces, NFPA No. 86A-1969 shall apply where applicable.
(4) Operation and maintenance. (i) All areas shall be kept free of the accumulation of powder coating dusts, particularly such horizontal surfaces as ledges, beams, pipes, hoods, booths, and floors.
(ii) Surfaces shall be cleaned in such manner as to avoid scattering dust to other places or creating dust clouds.
(iii) "No Smoking" signs in large letters on contrasting color background shall be conspicuously posted at all powder coating areas and powder storage rooms.
