§ 1910.211 Definitions.
(45) Point of operation means the area of the press where material is actually positioned and work is being performed during any process such as shearing, punching, forming, or assembling.
(46) Press means a mechanically powered machine that shears, punches, forms or assembles metal or other material by means of cutting, shaping, or combination dies attached to slides. A press consists of a stationary bed or anvil, and a slide (or slides) having a controlled reciprocating motion toward and away from the bed surface, the slide being guided in a definite path by the frame of the press.
(47) Repeat means an unintended or unexpected successive stroke of the press resulting from a malfunction.
(48) Safety block means a prop that, when inserted between the upper and lower dies or between the bolster plate and the face of the slide, prevents the slide from falling of its own deadweight.
(49) Single stroke means one complete stroke of the slide, usually initiated from a full open (or up) position, followed by closing (or down), and then a return to the full open position.
(50) Single stroke mechanism means an arrangement used on a full revolution clutch to limit the travel of the slide to one complete stroke at each engagement of the clutch.
(51) Slide means the main reciprocating press member. A slide is also called a ram, plunger, or platen.
(52) Stop control means an operator control designed to immediately deactivate the clutch control and activate the brake to stop slide motion.
(53) Stripper means a mechanism or die part for removing the parts or material from the punch.
(54) Stroking selector means the part of the clutch/brake control that determines the type of stroking when the operating means is actuated. The stroking selector generally includes positions for "Off" (Clutch Control), "Inch," "Single Stroke," and "Continuous" (when Continuous is furnished).
(55) Trip or (tripping) means activation of the clutch to "run" the press.
(56) Turnover bar means a bar used in die setting to manually turn the crankshaft of the press.
(57) Two-hand trip means a clutch actuating means requiring the concurrent use of both hands of the operator to trip the press.
