§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(ii) All control mechanisms for excessive wear of components and contamination by lubricants or other foreign matter.
(iii) All safety devices for malfunction.
(iv) Deterioration or leakage in air or hydraulic systems: Daily.
(v) Crane hooks with deformations or cracks. For hooks with cracks or having more than 15 percent in excess of normal throat opening or more than 10 degrees twist from the plane of the unbent hook.
(vi) Rope reeving for noncompliance with manufacturer's recommendations.
(vii) Electrical apparatus for malfunctioning, signs of excessive deterioration, dirt, and moisture accumulation.
(4) Periodic inspection. Complete inspections of the crane shall be performed at intervals as generally defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section depending upon its activity, severity of service, and environment, or as specifically indicated below. These inspections shall include the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section and in addition, items such as the following. Any deficiencies such as listed shall be carefully examined and determination made as to whether they constitute a safety hazard:
(i) Deformed, cracked, or corroded members in the crane structure and boom.
(ii) Loose bolts or rivets.
(iii) Cracked or worn sheaves and drums.
(iv) Worn, cracked, or distorted parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, rollers and locking devices.
(v) Excessive wear on brake and clutch system parts, linings, pawls, and ratchets.
(vi) Load, boom angle, and other indicators over their full range, for any significant inaccuracies.
(vii) Gasoline, diesel, electric, or other power plants for improper performance or noncompliance with safety requirements.
(viii) Excessive wear of chain-drive sprockets and excessive chain stretch.
(ix) Travel steering, braking, and locking devices, for malfunction.
(x) Excessively worn or damaged tires.
(5) Cranes not in regular use. (i) A crane which has been idle for a period of one month or more, but less than 6 months, shall be given an inspection conforming with requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section and paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section before placing in service.
