§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(xi) Safety relief valve assemblies, including their connections, shall be of sufficient size so as to provide the rate of flow required for the container on which they are installed. (xii) A hydrostatic relief valve shall be installed between each pair of shut-off valves on liquefied petroleum gas liquid piping so as to relieve into a safe atmosphere. The start-to-discharge pressure setting of such relief valves shall not be in excess of 500 p.s.i.g. The minimum setting on relief valves installed in piping connected to other than DOT containers shall not be lower than 140 percent of the container relief valve setting and in piping connected to DOT containers not lower than 400 p.s.i.g. The start-to-discharge pressure setting of such a relief valve, if installed on the discharge side of a pump, shall be greater than the maximum pressure permitted by the recirculation device in the system. (xiii) The discharge from any safety relief device shall not terminate in or beneath any building, except relief devices covered by paragraphs (b)(6)(i) ( a ) through ( e ) of this section, or paragraphs (c) (4)(i) or (5) of this section. (xiv) Container safety relief devices and regulator relief vents shall be located not less than five (5) feet in any direction from air openings into sealed combustion system appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes. (11) Vaporizer and housing. (i) Indirect fired vaporizers utilizing steam, water, or other heating medium shall be constructed and installed as follows: ( a ) Vaporizers shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) (i)-(iii) of this section and shall be permanently marked as follows: ( 1 ) With the code marking signifying the specifications to which the vaporizer is constructed. ( 2 ) With the allowable working pressure and temperature for which the vaporizer is designed. ( 3 ) With the sum of the outside surface area and the inside heat exchange surface area expressed in square feet. ( 4 ) With the name or symbol of the manufacturer. ( b ) Vaporizers having an inside diameter of 6 inches or less exempted by the ASME Unfired Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code—1968 shall have a design pressure not less than 250