§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(18) Nip points. The hazard of the nip points on all calender rolls shall be eliminated or minimized by means of an effective barrier device, or by feeding the paper into the rolls by means of a rope carrier, air jets, or hand feeding devices. (19) Platforms. [Reserved] (20) Scrapers. Alloy steel scrapers with pullthrough blades approximately 3 by 5 inches in size shall be used to remove "scabs" from calender rolls. (21) Illumination. Permanent lighting shall be installed in all areas where employees are required to make machine adjustments and sheet transfers in accordance with the American National Standard A11.1—1965 (R 1970). (22) Control panels. All control panel handles and buttons shall be protected from accidental contact. (23) [Reserved] (24) Lifting reels. (i) The reels shall stop rotating before being lifted from bearings. (ii) All lifting equipment (clamps, cables, and slings) shall be maintained in a safe condition and inspected regularly. (iii) Reel shafts with square block ends shall be guarded. (25) Feeder belts. Feeder belts, carrier ropes, air carriage, or other equally effective means shall be provided for starting paper into the nip or drum-type reels. (26) Inrunning nip. (i) Where the nipping points of all drum winders and rewinders is on the operator's side, it shall be guarded by barrier guards interlocked with the drive mechanism. (ii) [Reserved] (27) Core collars. Set screws for securing core collars to winding and unwinding shafts shall not protrude above the face of the collar. All edges of the collar with which an operator's hand comes in contact shall be beveled to remove all sharp corners. (28) Slitter knives. Slitter knives shall be guarded so as to prevent accidental contact. Carriers shall be provided and used for transportation of slitter knives. (29) Winder shaft. The winder shall have a guide rail to align the shaft for easy entrance into the opened rewind shaft bearing housings. (30) Core shaft. When the core shaft weighs in excess of the safe standard, a mechanical device such as a dolly shall be provided for carrying all or part of the weight when it is being removed from the set of paper and placed in the dressing