§ 1910.119 Process safety management of highly hazardous chemicals.
(E) An evaluation of the consequences of deviations, including those affecting the safety and health of employees.
(ii) Where the original technical information no longer exists, such information may be developed in conjunction with the process hazard analysis in sufficient detail to support the analysis.
(3) Information pertaining to the equipment in the process. (i) Information pertaining to the equipment in the process shall include:
(A) Materials of construction;
(B) Piping and instrument diagrams (P&ID's);
(C) Electrical classification;
(D) Relief system design and design basis;
(E) Ventilation system design;
(F) Design codes and standards employed;
(G) Material and energy balances for processes built after May 26, 1992; and,
(H) Safety systems (e.g. interlocks, detection or suppression systems).
(ii) The employer shall document that equipment complies with recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices.
(iii) For existing equipment designed and constructed in accordance with codes, standards, or practices that are no longer in general use, the employer shall determine and document that the equipment is designed, maintained, inspected, tested, and operating in a safe manner.
(e) Process hazard analysis. (1) The employer shall perform an initial process hazard analysis (hazard evaluation) on processes covered by this standard. The process hazard analysis shall be appropriate to the complexity of the process and shall identify, evaluate, and control the hazards involved in the process. Employers shall determine and document the priority order for conducting process hazard analyses based on a rationale which includes such considerations as extent of the process hazards, number of potentially affected employees, age of the process, and operating history of the process. The process hazard analysis shall be conducted as soon as possible, but not later than the following schedule:
(i) No less than 25 percent of the initial process hazards analyses shall be completed by May 26, 1994;
(ii) No less than 50 percent of the initial process hazards analyses shall be completed by May 26, 1995;
(iii) No less than 75 percent of the initial process hazards analyses shall be completed by May 26, 1996;
(iv) All initial process hazards analyses shall be completed by May 26, 1997.
