§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(3) After the procedure is completed, the employer must clean and disinfect the surfaces and equipment in the room or area where the procedure was performed.
Note: Note to paragraph ( g ): Respirators and other PPE requirements during aerosol-generating procedures are contained in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(h) Physical distancing. (1) The employer must ensure that each employee is separated from all other people by at least 6 feet when indoors unless the employer can demonstrate that such physical distancing is not feasible for a specific activity ( e.g., hands-on medical care). This provision does not apply to momentary exposure while people are in movement ( e.g., passing in hallways or aisles).
(2) When the employer establishes it is not feasible for an employee to maintain a distance of at least 6 feet from all other people, the employer must ensure that the employee is as far apart from all other people as feasible.
Note: Note to paragraph ( h ): Physical distancing can include methods such as: Telehealth; telework or other remote work arrangements; reducing the number of people, including non-employees, in an area at one time; visual cues such as signs and floor markings to indicate where employees and others should be located or their direction and path of travel; staggered arrival, departure, work, and break times; and adjusted work processes or procedures to allow greater distance between employees.
(i) Physical barriers. At each fixed work location outside of direct patient care areas ( e.g., entryway/lobby, check-in desks, triage, hospital pharmacy windows, bill payment) where each employee is not separated from all other people by at least 6 feet of distance, the employer must install cleanable or disposable solid barriers, except where the employer can demonstrate it is not feasible. The barrier must be sized ( e.g., height and width) and located to block face-to-face pathways between individuals based on where each person would normally stand or sit. The barrier may have a pass-through space at the bottom for objects and merchandise.
Note: Note to paragraph ( i ): Physical barriers are not required in direct patient care areas or resident rooms.
