§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(15) Splitter block. The block upon or against which the wood is rested shall have a corrugated surface or other means provided that the wood will not slip. Wood to be split, and also the splitting block, shall be free of ice, snow, or chips. The operator shall be provided with eye and foot protection. A clear and unobstructed view shall be maintained between equipment and workers around the block and the workers' help area.
(16) Power control. Power for the operation of the splitter shall be controlled by a clutch or equivalent device.
(17) Knot cleaners. The operators of knot cleaners of the woodpecker type shall wear eye protection equipment.
(18) Chipper spout. The feed system to the chipper spout shall be arranged in such a way that the operator does not stand in a direct line with the chipper spout. All chipper spouts shall be enclosed to a height of at least 42 inches from the floor or operator's platform. When other protection is not sufficient, the operator shall wear a safety belt line. The safety belt line shall be fastened in such a manner as to make it impossible for the operator to fall into the throat of the chipper. Ear protection equipment shall be worn by the operator and others in the immediate area if there is any possibility that the noise level may be harmful (see § 1910.95).
(19) Carriers for knives. Carriers shall be provided and used for transportation of knives.
(f) Rag and old paper preparation —(1) Ripping and trimming tools. (i) Hand knives and scissors shall have blunt points, shall be fastened to the table with chain or thong, and shall not be carried on the person but placed safely in racks or sheaths when not in use.
(ii) Hand knives and sharpening steels shall be provided with guards at the junction of the handle and the blade.
(2) Shredders, cutters, and dusters. (i) Rotating heads or cylinders shall be completely enclosed except for an opening at the feed side sufficient to permit only the entry of stock. The enclosure shall extend over the top of the feed rolls. It shall be constructed either of solid material or with mesh or openings not exceeding one-half inch and substantial enough to contain flying particles and prevent accidental contact with moving parts. The enclosure shall be bolted or locked into place.
