§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(15) Belt conveyors. (i) The sides of the conveyor shall be constructed so that the wood will not fall off.
(ii) Where conveyors cross passageways or roadways, a horizontal platform shall be provided under the conveyor, extended out from the sides of the conveyor a distance equal to 1 1/2 times the length of the wood handled. The platform shall extend the width of the road plus 2 feet (61 cm) on each side, and shall be kept free of wood and rubbish. The edges of the platform shall be provided with toeboards or other protection that meet the requirements of subpart D of this part, to prevent wood from falling.
(iii) All conveyors for pulpwood shall have the inrunning nips between chain and sprockets guarded; also, turning drums shall be guarded.
(iv) Every belt conveyor shall have an emergency stop cable extending the length of the conveyor so that it may be stopped from any location along the line, or conveniently located stop buttons within 10 feet of each work station, in accordance with American National Standard B20.1—1957.
(16) Signs. When conveyors cross walkways or roadways in the yards, the employer must erect signs reading "Danger—Overhead Conveyor" or an equivalent warning, in accordance with ANSI Z35.1-1968 or ANSI Z535.2-2011, incorporated by reference in § 1910.6.
(d) Handling and storage of raw materials other than pulpwood or pulp chips —(1) Personal protective equipment. Whenever possible, all dust, fumes, and gases incident to handling materials shall be controlled at the source, in accordance with American National Standard Z9.2—1960. Where control at the source is not possible, respirators with goggles or protective masks shall be provided, and employees shall wear them when handling alum, clay, soda ash, lime, bleach powder, sulfur, chlorine, and similar materials, and when opening rag bales.
(2) Clearance. (i) When materials are being piled inside a building and upon platforms, an aisle clearance at least 3 feet greater than the widest truck in use shall be provided.
(ii) Baled paper and rags stored inside a building shall not be piled closer than 18 inches to walls, partitions, or sprinkler heads.
