§ 1910.1028 Benzene.
(A) Provide employees with an explanation of the contents of this section, including Appendices A and B, and indicate to them where the standard is available; and
(B) Describe the medical surveillance program required under paragraph (i) of this section, and explain the information contained in appendix C.
(k) Recordkeeping —(1) Exposure measurements. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of all measurements required by paragraph (e) of this section, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20.
(ii) This record shall include:
(A) The dates, number, duration, and results of each of the samples taken, including a description of the procedure used to determine representative employee exposures;
(B) A description of the sampling and analytical methods used;
(C) A description of the type of respiratory protective devices worn, if any; and
(D) The name, job classification and exposure levels of the employee monitored and all other employees whose exposure the measurement is intended to represent.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least 30 years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20.
(2) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical surveillance required by paragraph (i) of this section, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20.
(ii) This record shall include:
(A) The name of the employee;
(B) The employer's copy of the physician's written opinion on the initial, periodic and special examinations, including results of medical examinations and all tests, opinions and recommendations;
(C) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to benzene;
(D) A copy of the information provided to the physician as required by paragraphs (i)(6) (ii) through (v) of this section; and
(E) A copy of the employee's medical and work history related to exposure to benzene or any other hematologic toxins.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least the duration of employment plus 30 years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20.
(3) Availability. (i) The employer shall assure that all records required to be maintained by this section shall be made available upon request to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying.
