§ 1910.146 Permit-required confined spaces.
(13) Review entry operations when the employer has reason to believe that the measures taken under the permit space program may not protect employees and revise the program to correct deficiencies found to exist before subsequent entries are authorized; and
Note: Note: Examples of circumstances requiring the review of the permit space program are: any unauthorized entry of a permit space, the detection of a permit space hazard not covered by the permit, the detection of a condition prohibited by the permit, the occurrence of an injury or near-miss during entry, a change in the use or configuration of a permit space, and employee complaints about the effectiveness of the program.
(14) Review the permit space program, using the canceled permits retained under paragraph (e)(6) of this section within 1 year after each entry and revise the program as necessary, to ensure that employees participating in entry operations are protected from permit space hazards.
Note: Note: Employers may perform a single annual review covering all entries performed during a 12-month period. If no entry is performed during a 12-month period, no review is necessary. Appendix C to § 1910.146 presents examples of permit space programs that are considered to comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(e) Permit system. (1) Before entry is authorized, the employer shall document the completion of measures required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section by preparing an entry permit.
Note: Note: Appendix D to § 1910.146 presents examples of permits whose elements are considered to comply with the requirements of this section.
(2) Before entry begins, the entry supervisor identified on the permit shall sign the entry permit to authorize entry.
(3) The completed permit shall be made available at the time of entry to all authorized entrants or their authorized representatives, by posting it at the entry portal or by any other equally effective means, so that the entrants can confirm that pre-entry preparations have been completed.
(4) The duration of the permit may not exceed the time required to complete the assigned task or job identified on the permit in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(5) The entry supervisor shall terminate entry and cancel the entry permit when:
(i) The entry operations covered by the entry permit have been completed; or
(ii) A condition that is not allowed under the entry permit arises in or near the permit space.
