§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( c ) Safety relief device discharge terminals shall be so located as to provide protection against physical damage and such discharge pipes shall be fitted with loose raincaps. Return bends and restrictive pipefittings shall not be permitted.
( d ) If desired, discharge lines from two or more safety relief devices located on the same unit, or similar lines from two or more different units, may be run into a common discharge header, provided that the cross-sectional area of such header be at least equal to the sum of the cross-sectional area of the individual discharge lines, and that the setting of safety relief valves are the same.
( e ) Each storage container of over 2,000 gallons water capacity shall be provided with a suitable pressure gage.
( f ) A final stage regulator of an LP-Gas system (excluding any appliance regulator) shall be equipped on the low-pressure side with a relief valve which is set to start to discharge within the limits specified in Table H-30.
( g ) When a regulator or pressure relief valve is installed inside a building, the relief valve and the space above the regulator and relief valve diaphragms shall be vented to the outside air with the discharge outlet located not less than 3 feet horizontally away from any opening into the building which is below such discharge. (These provisions do not apply to individual appliance regulators when protection is otherwise provided. In buildings devoted exclusively to gas distribution purposes, the space above the diaphragm need not be vented to the outside.)
(ii) Safety devices for aboveground containers shall be provided as follows:
( a ) Containers of 1,200 gallons water capacity or less which may contain liquid fuel when installed above ground shall have the rate of discharge required by paragraph (b)(10)(ii) of this section provided by a spring-loaded relief valve or valves. In addition to the required spring-loaded relief valve(s), suitable fuse plug(s) may be used provided the total discharge area of the fuse plug(s) for each container does not exceed 0.25 square inch.
( b ) The fusible metal of the fuse plugs shall have a yield temperature of 208 degrees F. minimum and 220 degrees F. maximum. Relief valves and fuse plugs shall have direct communication with the vapor space of the container.
