§ 1910.164 Fire detection systems.
(a) Scope and application. This section applies to all automatic fire detection systems installed to meet the requirements of a particular OSHA standard.
(b) Installation and restoration. (1) The employer shall assure that all devices and equipment constructed and installed to comply with this standard are approved for the purpose for which they are intended.
(2) The employer shall restore all fire detection systems and components to normal operating condition as promptly as possible after each test or alarm. Spare detection devices and components which are normally destroyed in the process of detecting fires shall be available on the premises or from a local supplier in sufficient quantities and locations for prompt restoration of the system.
(c) Maintenance and testing. (1) The employer shall maintain all systems in an operable condition except during repairs or maintenance.
(2) The employer shall assure that fire detectors and fire detection systems are tested and adjusted as often as needed to maintain proper reliability and operating condition except that factory calibrated detectors need not be adjusted after installation.
(3) The employer shall assure that pneumatic and hydraulic operated detection systems installed after January 1, 1981, are equipped with supervised systems.
(4) The employer shall assure that the servicing, maintenance and testing of fire detection systems, including cleaning and necessary sensitivity adjustments are performed by a trained person knowledgeable in the operations and functions of the system.
(5) The employer shall also assure that fire detectors that need to be cleaned of dirt, dust, or other particulates in order to be fully operational are cleaned at regular periodic intervals.
(d) Protection of fire detectors. (1) The employer shall assure that fire detection equipment installed outdoors or in the presence of corrosive atmospheres be protected from corrosion. The employer shall provide a canopy, hood, or other suitable protection for detection equipment requiring protection from the weather.
(2) The employer shall locate or otherwise protect detection equipment so that it is protected from mechanical or physical impact which might render it inoperable.
(3) The employer shall assure that detectors are supported independently of their attachment to wires or tubing.
(e) Response time. (1) The employer shall assure that fire detection systems installed for the purpose of actuating fire extinguishment or suppression systems shall be designed to operate in time to control or extinguish a fire.
(2) The employer shall assure that fire detection systems installed for the purpose of employee alarm and evacuation be designed and installed to provide a warning for emergency action and safe escape of employees.
(3) The employer shall not delay alarms or devices initiated by fire detector actuation for more than 30 seconds unless such delay is necessary for the immediate safety of employees. When such delay is necessary, it shall be addressed in an emergency action plan meeting the requirements of § 1910.38.
(f) Number, location and spacing of detecting devices. The employer shall assure that the number, spacing and location of fire detectors is based upon design data obtained from field experience, or tests, engineering surveys, the manufacturer's recommendations, or a recognized testing laboratory listing.