§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(iii) Oxygen cylinders in storage shall be separated from fuel-gas cylinders or combustible materials (especially oil or grease), a minimum distance of 20 feet (6.1 m) or by a noncombustible barrier at least 5 feet (1.5 m) high having a fire-resistance rating of at least one-half hour.
(iv) Where a liquid oxygen system is to be used to supply gaseous oxygen for welding or cutting and the system has a storage capacity of more than 13,000 cubic feet (364 m 3 ) of oxygen (measured at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) and 70 degrees F (21.1 degrees C)), connected in service or ready for service, or more than 25,000 cubic feet (700 m 3 ) of oxygen (measured at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) and 70 degrees F (21.1 degrees C)), including unconnected reserves on hand at the site, it shall comply with the provisions of the Standard for Bulk Oxygen Systems at Consumer Sites, NFPA No. 566—1965, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(5) Operating procedures. (i) Cylinders, cylinder valves, couplings, regulators, hose, and apparatus shall be kept free from oily or greasy substances. Oxygen cylinders or apparatus shall not be handled with oily hands or gloves. A jet of oxygen must never be permitted to strike an oily surface, greasy clothes, or enter a fuel oil or other storage tank.
(ii)(A) When transporting cylinders by a crane or derrick, a cradle, boat, or suitable platform shall be used. Slings or electric magnets shall not be used for this purpose. Valve-protection caps, where cylinder is designed to accept a cap, shall always be in place.
(B) Cylinders shall not be dropped or struck or permitted to strike each other violently.
(C) Valve-protection caps shall not be used for lifting cylinders from one vertical position to another. Bars shall not be used under valves or valve-protection caps to pry cylinders loose when frozen to the ground or otherwise fixed; the use of warm (not boiling) water is recommended. Valve-protection caps are designed to protect cylinder valves from damage.
