§ 1910.1044 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane.
(i) A medical and occupational history including reproductive history.
(ii) A physical examination, including examination of the genito-urinary tract, testicle size and body habitus, including a determination of sperm count.
(iii) A serum specimen shall be obtained and the following determinations made by radioimmunoassay techniques utilizing National Institutes of Health (NIH) specific antigen or one of equivalent sensitivity:
( a ) Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH);
( b ) Serum luteinizing hormone (LH); and
( c ) Serum total estrogen (females).
(iv) Any other tests deemed appropriate by the examining physician.
(3) Additional examinations. If the employee for any reason develops signs or symptoms commonly associated with exposure to DBCP, the employer shall provide the employee with a medical examination which shall include those elements considered appropriate by the examining physician.
(4) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician:
(i) A copy of this regulation and its appendices;
(ii) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposure;
(iii) The level of DBCP to which the employee is exposed; and
(iv) A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used.
(5) Physician's written opinion. (i) For each examination under this section, the employer shall obtain and provide the employee with a written opinion from the examining physician which shall include:
( a ) The results of the medical tests performed;
( b ) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical condition which would place the employee at an increased risk of material impairment of health from exposure to DBCP; and
( c ) Any recommended limitations upon the employee's exposure to DBCP or upon the use of protective clothing and equipment such as respirators.
(ii) The employer shall instruct the physician not to reveal in the written opinion specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure.
