§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(B) When the source individual is already known to be infected with HBV or HIV, testing for the source individual's known HBV or HIV status need not be repeated.
(C) Results of the source individual's testing shall be made available to the exposed employee, and the employee shall be informed of applicable laws and regulations concerning disclosure of the identity and infectious status of the source individual.
(iii) Collection and testing of blood for HBV and HIV serological status;
(A) The exposed employee's blood shall be collected as soon as feasible and tested after consent is obtained.
(B) If the employee consents to baseline blood collection, but does not give consent at that time for HIV serologic testing, the sample shall be preserved for at least 90 days. If, within 90 days of the exposure incident, the employee elects to have the baseline sample tested, such testing shall be done as soon as feasible.
(iv) Post-exposure prophylaxis, when medically indicated, as recommended by the U.S. Public Health Service;
(v) Counseling; and
(vi) Evaluation of reported illnesses.
(4) Information Provided to the Healthcare Professional. (i) The employer shall ensure that the healthcare professional responsible for the employee's Hepatitis B vaccination is provided a copy of this regulation.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that the healthcare professional evaluating an employee after an exposure incident is provided the following information:
(A) A copy of this regulation;
(B) A description of the exposed employee's duties as they relate to the exposure incident;
(C) Documentation of the route(s) of exposure and circumstances under which exposure occurred;
(D) Results of the source individual's blood testing, if available; and
(E) All medical records relevant to the appropriate treatment of the employee including vaccination status which are the employer's responsibility to maintain.
(5) Healthcare Professional's Written Opinion. The employer shall obtain and provide the employee with a copy of the evaluating healthcare professional's written opinion within 15 days of the completion of the evaluation.
(i) The healthcare professional's written opinion for Hepatitis B vaccination shall be limited to whether Hepatitis B vaccination is indicated for an employee, and if the employee has received such vaccination.
