§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(A) The name of the employee;
(B) A copy of the employee's hepatitis B vaccination status including the dates of all the hepatitis B vaccinations and any medical records relative to the employee's ability to receive vaccination as required by paragraph (f)(2);
(C) A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up procedures as required by paragraph (f)(3);
(D) The employer's copy of the healthcare professional's written opinion as required by paragraph (f)(5); and
(E) A copy of the information provided to the healthcare professional as required by paragraphs (f)(4)(ii)(B)(C) and (D).
(iii) Confidentiality. The employer shall ensure that employee medical records required by paragraph (h)(1) are:
(A) Kept confidential; and
(B) Not disclosed or reported without the employee's express written consent to any person within or outside the workplace except as required by this section or as may be required by law.
(iv) The employer shall maintain the records required by paragraph (h) for at least the duration of employment plus 30 years in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2) Training Records. (i) Training records shall include the following information:
(A) The dates of the training sessions;
(B) The contents or a summary of the training sessions;
(C) The names and qualifications of persons conducting the training; and
(D) The names and job titles of all persons attending the training sessions.
(ii) Training records shall be maintained for 3 years from the date on which the training occurred.
(3) Availability. (i) The employer shall ensure that all records required to be maintained by this section shall be made available upon request to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying.
(ii) Employee training records required by this paragraph shall be provided upon request for examination and copying to employees, to employee representatives, to the Director, and to the Assistant Secretary.
(iii) Employee medical records required by this paragraph shall be provided upon request for examination and copying to the subject employee, to anyone having written consent of the subject employee, to the Director, and to the Assistant Secretary in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
