§ 1910.104 Oxygen.
(ii) Construction—liquid. Liquid oxygen storage containers shall be fabricated from materials meeting the impact test requirements of paragraph UG-84 of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6. Containers operating at pressures above 15 pounds per square inch gage (p.s.i.g.) shall be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968. Insulation surrounding the liquid oxygen container shall be noncombustible.
(iii) Construction—gaseous. High- pressure gaseous oxygen containers shall comply with one of the following:
( a ) Designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968.
( b ) Designed, constructed, tested, and maintained in accordance with DOT Specifications and Regulations.
(5) Piping, tubing, and fittings —(i) Selection. Piping, tubing, and fittings shall be suitable for oxygen service and for the pressures and temperatures involved.
(ii) Specification. Piping and tubing shall conform to section 2—Gas and Air Piping Systems of Code for Pressure Piping, ANSI, B31.1-1967 with addenda B31.10a-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(iii) Fabrication. Piping or tubing for operating temperatures below −20 degrees F. shall be fabricated from materials meeting the impact test requirements of paragraph UG-84 of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968, when tested at the minimum operating temperature to which the piping may be subjected in service.
(6) Safety relief devices —(i) General. Bulk oxygen storage containers, regardless of design pressure shall be equipped with safety relief devices as required by the ASME code or the DOT specifications and regulations.
(ii) DOT containers. Bulk oxygen storage containers designed and constructed in accordance with DOT specification shall be equipped with safety relief devices as required thereby.
