§ 1910.1096 Ionizing radiation.
(i) Atomic Energy Act sources. Any employer who possesses or uses source material, byproduct material, or special nuclear material, as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq. ), and has either registered such sources with, or is operating under a license issued by, a State which has an agreement in effect with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to section 274(b) (42 U.S.C. 2021(b)) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and in accordance with the requirements of that State's laws and regulations shall be deemed to be in compliance with the radiation requirements of this section, insofar as his possession and use of such material is concerned, unless the Secretary of Labor, after conference with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, shall determine that the State's program for control of these radiation sources is incompatible with the requirements of this section. Such agreements currently are in effect only in the States of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Kansas, Kentucky, Florida, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Texas, Tennessee, Oregon, Idaho, Arizona, Colorado, Louisiana, Nebraska, Washington, Maryland, North Dakota, South Carolina, and Georgia. (ii) Other sources. Any employer who possesses or uses radiation sources other than source material, byproduct material, or special nuclear material, as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq. ), and has either registered such sources with, or is operating under a license issued by a State which has an agreement in effect with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to section 274(b) (42 U.S.C. 2021(b)) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and in accordance with the requirements of that State's laws and regulations shall be deemed to be in compliance with the radiation requirements of this section, insofar as his possession and use of such material is concerned, provided the State's program for control of these radiation sources is the subject of a currently effective determination by the Assistant Secretary of Labor that such program is compatible with the requirements of this section. Such determinations currently are in effect only in the States of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Kansas, Kentucky, Florida, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Texas, Tennessee, Oregon, Idaho, Arizona,