§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( 2 ) Hose shall be long enough to permit compliance with spacing provisions of this subparagraph without kinking or straining or causing hose to be so close to a burner as to be damaged by heat.
( h ) Portable heaters, including salamanders, shall be equipped with an approved automatic device to shut off the flow of gas to the main burner, and pilot if used, in the event of flame extinguishment. Such heaters having inputs above 50,000 B.t.u. manufactured on or after May 17, 1967, and such heaters having inputs above 100,000 B.t.u. manufactured before May 17, 1967, shall be equipped with either.
( 1 ) A pilot which must be lighted and proved before the main burner can be turned on; or
( 2 ) An electric ignition system.
The provisions of this paragraph ( h ) do not apply to tar kettle burners, torches, melting pots, nor do they apply to portable heaters under 7,500 B.t.u.h. input when used with containers having a maximum water capacity of 2 1/2 pounds. Container valves, connectors, regulators, manifolds, piping, and tubing shall not be used as structural supports for heaters.
( i ) Containers, regulating equipment, manifolds, pipe, tubing, and hose shall be located so as to minimize exposure to abnormally high temperatures (such as may result from exposure to convection or radiation from heating equipment or installation in confined spaces), physical damage, or tampering by unauthorized persons.
( j ) Heat producing equipment shall be located and used so as to minimize the possibility of ignition of combustibles.
( k ) Containers having a water capacity greater than 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) connected for use, shall stand on a firm and substantially level surface and, when necessary, shall be secured in an upright position.
( l ) Containers, including the valve protective devices, shall be installed so as to minimize the probability of impingement of discharge of safety relief devices upon containers.
(ii) Containers having a maximum water capacity of 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) are permitted to be used inside of buildings as part of approved self-contained hand torch assemblies or similar appliances.
