§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
(2) Emergency stop bar —An emergency stop bar shall be provided, and so located that the body of the operator will press against the bar if the operator slips and falls toward the rolls, or if the operator gets his hand caught in the rolls. The bar shall apply the body pressure to open positively a circuit that will deenergize the drive motor. In addition, a brake which is inherently self-engaging by requiring power or force from an external source to cause disengagement shall be activated at the same time causing the rolls to stop instantly. The emergency stop bar shall be checked for proper operation every 30 days.
(i) Miscellaneous equipment —(1) Proof boxes. All door locks shall be operable both from within and outside the box. Guide rails shall be installed to center the rack as it enters, passes through, and leaves the proof box.
(2) Fermentation room. Fermentation room doors shall have nonshatterable wire glass or plastic panels for vision through doors.
(3) Troughs. Troughs shall be mounted on antifriction bearing casters thus making it possible for the operator to move and direct the motion of the trough with a minimum of effort.
(4) Hand trucks. (i) Casters shall be set back from corners to be out of the way of toes and heels, but not far enough back to cause the truck to be unstable.
(ii) A lock or other device shall be provided to hold the handle in vertical position when the truck is not in use.
(5) Lift trucks. A lock or other device shall be provided to hold the handle in vertical position when the truck is not in use.
(6) Racks.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Racks shall be equipped with handles so located with reference to the frame of the rack that no part of the operator's hands extends beyond the outer edge of the frame when holding onto the handles.
(iii) Antifriction bearing casters shall be used to give the operator better control of the rack.
(7) Conveyors. (i) Wherever a conveyor passes over a main aisleway, regularly occupied work area, or passageway, the underside of the conveyor shall be completely enclosed to prevent broken chains or other material from falling in the passageway.
(ii) Stop bumpers shall be installed on all delivery ends of conveyors, wherever manual removal of the product carried is practiced.
