§ 1910.272 Grain handling facilities.
(2) Paragraphs (o), (p), and (q) of this section apply only to grain elevators.
(c) Definitions.
Choked leg means a condition of material buildup in the bucket elevator that results in the stoppage of material flow and bucket movement. A bucket elevator is not considered choked that has the up-leg partially or fully loaded and has the boot and discharge cleared allowing bucket movement.
Flat storage structure means a grain storage building or structure that will not empty completely by gravity, has an unrestricted ground level opening for entry, and must be entered to reclaim the residual grain using powered equipment or manual means.
Fugitive grain dust means combustible dust particles, emitted from the stock handling system, of such size as will pass through a U.S. Standard 40 mesh sieve (425 microns or less).
Grain elevator means a facility engaged in the receipt, handling, storage, and shipment of bulk raw agricultural commodities such as corn, wheat, oats, barley, sunflower seeds, and soybeans.
Hot work means work involving electric or gas welding, cutting, brazing, or similar flame producing operations.
Inside bucket elevator means a bucket elevator that has the boot and more than 20 percent of the total leg height (above grade or ground level) inside the grain elevator structure. Bucket elevators with leg casings that are inside (and pass through the roofs) of rail or truck dump sheds with the remainder of the leg outside of the grain elevator structure, are not considered inside bucket elevators.
Jogging means repeated starting and stopping of drive motors in an attempt to clear choked legs.
Lagging means a covering on drive pulleys used to increase the coefficient of friction between the pulley and the belt.
Permit means the written certification by the employer authorizing employees to perform identified work operations subject to specified precautions.
(d) Emergency action plan. The employer shall develop and implement an emergency action plan meeting the requirements contained in 29 CFR 1910.38.
(e) Training. (1) The employer shall provide training to employees at least annually and when changes in job assignment will expose them to new hazards. Current employees, and new employees prior to starting work, shall be trained in at least the following:
(i) General safety precautions associated with the facility, including recognition and preventive measures for the hazards related to dust accumulations and common ignition sources such as smoking; and,
