§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(7) [Reserved] (8) Barker feed. Each barker shall be equipped with a feed and turnover device which will make it unnecessary for the operator to hold a bolt or log by hand during the barking operation. Eye, ear, and head protection shall be provided for the operator, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (9) [Reserved] (10) Stops. All control devices shall be locked out and tagged when knives are being changed. (11) Speed governor. Water wheels, when directly connected to barker disks or grinders, shall be provided with speed governors, if operated with gate wide open. (12) Continuous barking drums. (i) When platforms or floors allow access to the sides of the drums, a standard railing shall be constructed around the drums. When two or more drums are arranged side by side, proper walkways with standard handrails shall be provided between each set, in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.23, Guarding floor and wall openings and holes. (ii) Sprockets and chains, gears, and trunnions shall have standard guards, in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.219, Mechanical power-transmission apparatus. (iii) Whenever it becomes necessary for a workman to go within a drum, the driving mechanism shall be locked and tagged, at the main disconnect switch, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (13) Intermittent barking drums. In addition to motor switch, clutch, belt shifter, or other power disconnecting device, intermittent barking drums shall be equipped with a device which may be locked to prevent the drum from moving while it is being emptied or filled. (14) Hydraulic barkers. Hydraulic barkers shall be enclosed with strong baffles at the inlet and the outlet. The operator shall be protected by at least five-ply laminated glass. (15) Splitter block. The block upon or against which the wood is rested shall have a corrugated surface or other means provided that the wood will not slip. Wood to be split, and also the splitting block, shall be free of ice, snow, or chips. The operator shall be provided with eye and foot protection. A clear and unobstructed view shall be maintained between equipment and workers around the block and the workers' help area. (16) Power control. Power for the operation of the splitter shall