§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(5) Storage of blasting agents and supplies. (i) Blasting agents and oxidizers used for mixing of blasting agents shall be stored in the manner set forth in this subdivision.
( a ) Blasting agents or ammonium nitrate, when stored in conjunction with explosives, shall be stored in the manner set forth in paragraph (c) of this section for explosives. The mass of blasting agents and one-half the mass of ammonium nitrate shall be included when computing the total quantity of explosives for determining distance requirements.
( b ) Blasting agents, when stored entirely separate from explosives, may be stored in the manner set forth in paragraph (c) of this section or in one-story warehouses (without basements) which shall be:
( 1 ) Noncombustible or fire resistive;
( 2 ) Constructed so as to eliminate open floor drains and piping into which molten materials could flow and be confined in case of fire;
( 3 ) Weather resistant;
( 4 ) Well ventilated; and
( 5 ) Equipped with a strong door kept securely locked except when open for business.
( c ) Semitrailer or full-trailer vans used for highway or onsite transportation of the blasting agents are satisfactory for temporarily storing these materials, provided they are located in accordance with Table H-22 with respect to one another. Trailers shall be provided with substantial means for locking, and the trailer doors shall be kept locked, except during the time of placement and removal of stocks of blasting agents.
(ii) Warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents separate from explosives shall be located as set forth in this subdivision.
( a ) Warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents shall be located in Table H-22 with respect to one another.
( b ) If both blasting agents and ammonium nitrate are handled or stored within the distance limitations prescribed through paragraph (g)(2) of this section, one-half the mass of the ammonium nitrate shall be added to the mass of the blasting agent when computing the total quantity of explosives for determining the proper distance for compliance with Table H-21.
(iii) Smoking, matches, open flames, spark producing devices, and firearms are prohibited inside of or within 50 feet of any warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents. Combustible materials shall not be stored within 50 feet of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents.
