§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(13) Boom harness means the block and sheave arrangement on the boom point to which the topping lift cable is reeved for lowering and raising the boom.
(14) The boom point is the outward end of the top section of the boom.
(15) Derrick bullwheel means a horizontal ring or wheel, fastened to the foot of a derrick, for the purpose of turning the derrick by means of ropes leading from this wheel to a powered drum.
(16) Designated means selected or assigned by the employer or employer's representative as being qualified to perform specific duties.
(17) Eye means a loop formed at the end of a rope by securing the dead end to the live end at the base of the loop.
(18) A fiddle block is a block consisting of two sheaves in the same plane held in place by the same cheek plates.
(19) The foot bearing or foot block (sill block) is the lower support on which the mast rotates.
(20) A gudgeon pin is a pin connecting the mast cap to the mast allowing rotation of the mast.
(21) A guy is a rope used to steady or secure the mast or other member in the desired position.
(22) Load, working means the external load, in pounds, applied to the derrick, including the weight of load attaching equipment such as load blocks, shackles, and slings.
(23) Load block, lower means the assembly of sheaves, pins, and frame suspended by the hoisting rope.
(24) Load block, upper means the assembly of sheaves, pins, and frame suspended from the boom.
(25) Mast means the upright member of the derrick.
(26) Mast cap (spider) means the fitting at the top of the mast to which the guys are connected.
(27) Reeving means a rope system in which the rope travels around drums and sheaves.
(28) Rope refers to wire rope unless otherwise specified.
(29) Safety Hook means a hook with a latch to prevent slings or load from accidentally slipping off the hook.
(30) Side loading is a load applied at an angle to the vertical plane of the boom.
(31) The sill is a member connecting the foot block and stiffleg or a member connecting the lower ends of a double member mast.
(32) A standby derrick is a derrick not in regular service which is used occasionally or intermittently as required.
