§ 1910.1045 Acrylonitrile.
(g) Methods of compliance —(1) Engineering and work practice controls. (i) By November 2, 1980, the employer shall institute engineering and work practice controls to reduce and maintain employee exposures to AN, to or below the permissible exposure limits, except to the extent that the employer establishes that such controls are not feasible.
(ii) Wherever the engineering and work practice controls which can be instituted are not sufficient to reduce employee exposures to or below the permissible exposure limits, the employer shall nonetheless use them to reduce exposures to the lowest levels achievable by these controls, and shall supplement them by the use of respiratory protection which complies with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Compliance program. (i) The employer shall establish and implement a written program to reduce employee exposures to or below the permissible exposure limits solely by means of engineering and work practice controls, as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(ii) Written plans for these compliance programs shall include at least the following:
(A) A description of each operation or process resulting in employee exposure to AN above the permissible exposure limits;
(B) An outline of the nature of the engineering controls and work practices to be applied to the operation or process in question;
(C) A report of the technology considered in meeting the permissible exposure limits;
(D) A schedule for implementation of engineering and work practice controls for the operation or process, which shall project completion no later than November 2, 1980; and
(E) Other relevant information.
(iii) The employer shall complete the steps set forth in the compliance program by the dates in the schedule.
(iv) Written plans shall be submitted upon request to the Assistant Secretary and the Director, and shall be available at the worksite for examination and copying by the Assistant Secretary, the Director, or any affected employee or representative.
(v) The plans required by this paragraph must be revised and updated at least annually to reflect the current status of the program.
(h) Respiratory protection —(1) General. For employees who use respirators required by this section, the employer must provide each employee an appropriate respirator that complies with the requirements of this paragraph. Respirators must be used during:
(i) Periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work-practice controls.
