§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(13) Industrial trucks inside buildings. (i) LP-Gas-fueled industrial trucks are permitted to be used in buildings and structures.
(ii) No more than two LP-Gas containers shall be used on an industrial truck for motor fuel purposes.
(iii)-(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Industrial trucks shall not be parked and left unattended in areas of possible excessive heat or sources of ignition.
(14) Garaging LP-Gas-fueled vehicles. (i) LP-Gas-fueled vehicles may be stored or serviced inside garages provided there are no leaks in the fuel system and the fuel tanks are not filled beyond the maximum filling capacity specified in paragraph (b)(12)(i) of this section.
(ii) LP-Gas-fueled vehicles being repaired in garages shall have the container shutoff valve closed except when fuel is required for engine operation.
(iii) Such vehicles shall not be parked near sources of heat, open flames, or similar sources of ignition or near open pits unless such pits are adequately ventilated.
(f) Storage of containers awaiting use or resale —(1) Application. This paragraph shall apply to the storage of portable containers not in excess of 1,000 pounds water capacity, filled or partially filled, at user location but not connected for use, or in storage for resale by dealers or resellers. This paragraph shall not apply to containers stored at charging plants or at plants devoted primarily to the storage and distribution of LP-Gas or other petroleum products.
(2) General. (i) Containers in storage shall be located so as to minimize exposure to excessive temperature rise, physical damage, or tampering by unauthorized persons.
(ii) Containers when stored inside shall not be located near exits, stairways, or in areas normally used or intended for the safe exit of people.
(iii) Container valves shall be protected while in storage as follows:
( a ) By setting into recess of container to prevent the possibility of their being struck if the container is dropped upon a flat surface, or
( b ) By ventilated cap or collar, fastened to container capable of withstanding blow from any direction equivalent to that of a 30-pound weight dropped 4 feet. Construction must be such that a blow will not be transmitted to a valve or other connection.
