§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(H) An explanation of the basis for selection of personal protective equipment;
(I) Information on the hepatitis B vaccine, including information on its efficacy, safety, method of administration, the benefits of being vaccinated, and that the vaccine and vaccination will be offered free of charge;
(J) Information on the appropriate actions to take and persons to contact in an emergency involving blood or other potentially infectious materials;
(K) An explanation of the procedure to follow if an exposure incident occurs, including the method of reporting the incident and the medical follow-up that will be made available;
(L) Information on the post-exposure evaluation and follow-up that the employer is required to provide for the employee following an exposure incident;
(M) An explanation of the signs and labels and/or color coding required by paragraph (g)(1); and
(N) An opportunity for interactive questions and answers with the person conducting the training session.
(viii) The person conducting the training shall be knowledgeable in the subject matter covered by the elements contained in the training program as it relates to the workplace that the training will address.
(ix) Additional Initial Training for Employees in HIV and HBV Laboratories and Production Facilities. Employees in HIV or HBV research laboratories and HIV or HBV production facilities shall receive the following initial training in addition to the above training requirements.
(A) The employer shall assure that employees demonstrate proficiency in standard microbiological practices and techniques and in the practices and operations specific to the facility before being allowed to work with HIV or HBV.
(B) The employer shall assure that employees have prior experience in the handling of human pathogens or tissue cultures before working with HIV or HBV.
(C) The employer shall provide a training program to employees who have no prior experience in handling human pathogens. Initial work activities shall not include the handling of infectious agents. A progression of work activities shall be assigned as techniques are learned and proficiency is developed. The employer shall assure that employees participate in work activities involving infectious agents only after proficiency has been demonstrated.
(h) Recordkeeping —(1) Medical Records. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee with occupational exposure, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(ii) This record shall include:
(A) The name of the employee;
