§ 1910.21 Scope and definitions.
a scaffold does not include a crane-suspended or derrick-suspended personnel platform or a rope descent system. Ship stair (ship ladder) means a stairway that is equipped with treads, stair rails, and open risers, and has a slope that is between 50 and 70 degrees from the horizontal. Side-step ladder means a type of fixed ladder that requires an employee to step sideways from it in order to reach a walking-working surface, such as a landing. Spiral stairs means a series of treads attached to a vertical pole in a winding fashion, usually within a cylindrical space. Stair rail or stair rail system means a barrier erected along the exposed or open side of stairways to prevent employees from falling to a lower level. Stairway (stairs) means risers and treads that connect one level with another, and includes any landings and platforms in between those levels. Stairways include standard, spiral, alternating tread-type, and ship stairs. Standard stairs means a fixed or permanently installed stairway. Ship, spiral, and alternating tread-type stairs are not considered standard stairs. Step bolt (pole step) means a bolt or rung attached at intervals along a structural member used for foot placement and as a handhold when climbing or standing. Stepladder means a self-supporting, portable ladder that has a fixed height, flat steps, and a hinged back. Stepstool means a self-supporting, portable ladder that has flat steps and side rails. For purposes of the final rule, stepstool includes only those ladders that have a fixed height, do not have a pail shelf, and do not exceed 32 inches (81 cm) in overall height to the top cap, although side rails may extend above the top cap. A stepstool is designed so an employee can climb and stand on all of the steps and the top cap. Through ladder means a type of fixed ladder that allows the employee to step through the side rails at the top of the ladder to reach a walking-working surface, such as a landing. Tieback means an attachment between an anchorage ( e.g., structural member) and a supporting device ( e.g., parapet clamp or cornice hook). Toeboard means a low protective barrier that is designed to prevent materials, tools, and equipment from falling to a lower level, and protect employees from falling. Travel restraint system means a combination of an anchorage, anchorage connector, lanyard (or other means of connection), and body support that an employer uses to eliminate the possibility of an employee going over the edge of a walking-working surface. Tread means a horizontal member of a stair or stairway, but does not include landings or platforms. Unprotected sides and edges mean any side or edge of a walking-working surface (except at entrances and other points of access) where there is no wall, guardrail system, or stair rail system to protect an employee from falling to a lower level. Walking-working surface means any horizontal or vertical surface on or through which an employee walks, works, or gains access to a work area or workplace location. Warning line means a barrier erected to warn employees