§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(26) Load (working) means the external load, in pounds, applied to the crane, including the weight of load-attaching equipment such as load blocks, shackles, and slings.
(27) Load block (upper) means the assembly of hook or shackle, swivel, sheaves, pins, and frame suspended from the boom point.
(28) Load block (lower) means the assembly of hook or shackle, swivel, sheaves, pins, and frame suspended by the hoisting ropes.
(29) A load hoist is a hoist drum and rope reeving system used for hoisting and lowering loads.
(30) Load ratings are crane ratings in pounds established by the manufacturer in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(31) Outriggers are extendable or fixed metal arms, attached to the mounting base, which rest on supports at the outer ends.
(32) Rail clamp means a tong-like metal device, mounted on a locomotive crane car, which can be connected to the track.
(33) Reeving means a rope system in which the rope travels around drums and sheaves.
(34) Rope refers to a wire rope unless otherwise specified.
(35) Side loading means a load applied at an angle to the vertical plane of the boom.
(36) A standby crane is a crane which is not in regular service but which is used occasionally or intermittently as required.
(37) A standing (guy) rope is a supporting rope which maintains a constant distance between the points of attachment to the two components connected by the rope.
(38) Structural competence means the ability of the machine and its components to withstand the stresses imposed by applied loads.
(39) Superstructure means the rotating upper frame structure of the machine and the operating machinery mounted thereon.
(40) Swing means the rotation of the superstructure for movement of loads in a horizontal direction about the axis of rotation.
(41) Swing mechanism means the machinery involved in providing rotation of the superstructure.
(42) Tackle is an assembly of ropes and sheaves arranged for hoisting and pulling.
(43) Transit means the moving or transporting of a crane from one jobsite to another.
(44) Travel means the function of the machine moving from one location to another, on a jobsite.
(45) The travel mechanism is the machinery involved in providing travel.
