§ 1910.211 Definitions.
(65) Validation or validate means for PSDI safety systems that an OSHA recognized third-party validation organization:
(i) For design certification/validation has reviewed the manufacturer's certification that the PSDI safety system meets the requirements of § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A and the underlying tests and analyses performed by the manufacturer, has performed additional tests and analyses which may be required by § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A, and concludes that the requirements of § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A have been met; and
(ii) For installation certification/validation and annual recertification/revalidation has reviewed the employer's certification that the PSDI safety system meets the requirements of § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A and the underlying tests performed by the employer, has performed additional tests and analyses which may be required by § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A, and concludes that the requirements of § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A have been met.
(66) Certification/validation and certify/validate means the combined process of certification and validation.
(e) As used in § 1910.218, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following forging and hot metal terms shall have the meaning prescribed in this paragraph.
(1) Forging means the product of work on metal formed to a desired shape by impact or pressure in hammers, forging machines (upsetters), presses, rolls, and related forming equipment. Forging hammers, counterblow equipment and high-energy-rate forging machines impart impact to the workpiece, while most other types of forging equipment impart squeeze pressure in shaping the stock. Some metals can be forged at room temperature, but the majority of metals are made more plastic for forging by heating.
(2) Open framehammers (or blacksmith hammers) mean hammers used primarily for the shaping of forgings by means of impact with flat dies. Open frame hammers generally are so constructed that the anvil assembly is separate from the operating mechanism and machine supports; it rests on its own independent foundation. Certain exceptions are forging hammers made with frame mounted on the anvil; e.g., the smaller, single-frame hammers are usually made with the anvil and frame in one piece.
