§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(vii) The employer shall provide, at no cost to the employee, and assure that each employee wears the following: (A) Eye protection meeting the requirements of subpart I of part 1910 where there is potential for eye injury due to falling or flying objects; and (B) Face protection meeting the requirements of subpart I of part 1910 where there is potential for facial injury such as, but not limited to, operating a chipper. Logger-type mesh screens may be worn by employees performing chain-saw operations and yarding. Note: Note to paragraph ( d )(1)( vii ): The employee does not have to wear a separate eye protection device where face protection covering both the eyes and face is worn. (2) First-aid kits. (i) The employer shall provide first-aid kits at each work site where trees are being cut (e.g., felling, bucking, limbing), at each active landing, and on each employee transport vehicle. The number of first-aid kits and the content of each kit shall reflect the degree of isolation, the number of employees, and the hazards reasonably anticipated at the work site. (ii) At a minimum, each first-aid kit shall contain the items listed in appendix A at all times. (iii) The employer also may have the number and content of first-aid kits reviewed and approved annually by a health care provider. (iv) The employer shall maintain the contents of each first-aid kit in a serviceable condition. (3) Seat belts. For each vehicle or machine (equipped with ROPS/FOPS or overhead guards), including any vehicle or machine provided by an employee, the employer shall assure: (i) That a seat belt is provided for each vehicle or machine operator; (ii) That each employee uses the available seat belt while the vehicle or machine is being operated; (iii) That each employee securely and tightly fastens the seat belt to restrain the employee within the vehicle or machine cab; (iv) That each machine seat belt meets the requirements of the Society of Automotive Engineers Standard SAE J386, June 1985, "Operator Restraint Systems for Off-Road Work Machines", which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6. (v) That seat belts are not removed from any vehicle or machine. The employer shall replace each seat belt which has been removed from any vehicle or machine that was equipped with seat belts at the time