§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(v) Shutoff valves shall not be installed between the safety-relief valves and the container; except, that a shutoff valve may be used where the arrangement of this valve is such as always to afford full required capacity flow through the relief valves.
(vi) Safety-relief valves shall have direct communication with the vapor space of the container.
(vii) Each container safety-relief valve used with systems covered by paragraphs (c), (f), (g), and (h) of this section shall be plainly and permanently marked with the symbol "NH 3 " or "AA"; with the pressure in pounds-per-square-inch gage at which the valve is set to start-to-discharge; with the actual rate of discharge of the valve at its full open position in cubic feet per minute of air at 60 degrees F. and atmospheric pressure; and with the manufacturer's name and catalog number. Example: "NH 3 250-4050 Air" indicates that the valve is suitable for use on an anhydrous ammonia container, is set to start-to-discharge at a pressure of 250 p.s.i.g., and that its rate of discharge at full open position (subdivisions (ii) and (iii) of this subparagraph) is 4,050 cubic feet per minute of air.
(viii) The flow capacity of the relief valve shall not be restricted by any connection to it on either the upstream or downstream side.
(ix) A hydrostatic relief valve shall be installed between each pair of valves in the liquid ammonia piping or hose where liquid may be trapped so as to relieve into the atmosphere at a safe location.
(10) General.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Stationary storage installations must have at least two suitable gas masks in readily-accessible locations. Full-face masks with ammonia canisters that have been approved by NIOSH under 42 CFR part 84 are suitable for emergency action involving most anhydrous ammonia leaks, particularly leaks that occur outdoors. For respiratory protection in concentrated ammonia atmospheres, a self-contained breathing apparatus is required.
(iii) Stationary storage installations shall have an easily accessible shower or a 50-gallon drum of water.
(iv) Each vehicle transporting ammonia in bulk except farm applicator vehicles shall carry a container of at least 5 gallons of water and shall be equipped with a full face mask.
