§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(7) Brakes. (i) Service brakes shall be sufficient to stop and hold each machine and its rated load capacity on the slopes over which it is being operated. (ii) Each machine placed into initial service on or after September 8, 1995 shall also be equipped with: back-up or secondary brakes that are capable of stopping the machine regardless of the direction of travel or whether the engine is running; and parking brakes that are capable of continuously holding a stopped machine stationary. (8) Guarding. (i) Each machine shall be equipped with guarding to protect employees from exposed moving elements, such as but not limited to, shafts, pulleys, belts on conveyors, and gears, in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of part 1910. (ii) Each machine used for debarking, limbing and chipping shall be equipped with guarding to protect employees from flying wood chunks, logs, chips, bark, limbs and other material in accordance with the requirements of subpart O of part 1910. (iii) The guarding on each machine shall be in place at all times the machine is in operation. (g) Vehicles. (1) The employer shall assure that each vehicle used to perform any logging operation is maintained in serviceable condition. (2) The employer shall assure that each vehicle used to perform any logging operation is inspected before initial use during each workshift. Defects or damage shall be repaired or the unserviceable vehicle shall be replaced before work is commenced. (3) The employer shall assure that operating and maintenance instructions are available in each vehicle. Each vehicle operator and maintenance employee shall comply with the operating and maintenance instructions. (4) The employer shall assure that each vehicle operator has a valid operator's license for the class of vehicle being operated. (5) Mounting steps and handholds shall be provided for each vehicle wherever it is necessary to prevent an employee from being injured when entering or leaving the vehicle. (6) The seats of each vehicle shall be securely fastened. (7) The requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(iii), (f)(2)(v), (f)(2)(vii), (f)(2)(x), (f)(2)(xiii), and (f)(7) of this section shall also apply to each vehicle used to transport any employee off public roads or to perform any logging operation, including any vehicle provided by an