§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
(vi) Vent piping for aboveground tanks. ( a ) Vent piping shall be constructed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
( b ) Where vent pipe outlets for tanks storing Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), are adjacent to buildings or public ways, they shall be located so that the vapors are released at a safe point outside of buildings and not less than 12 feet above the adjacent ground level. In order to aid their dispersion, vapors shall be discharged upward or horizontally away from closely adjacent walls. Vent outlets shall be located so that flammable vapors will not be trapped by eaves or other obstructions and shall be at least five feet from building openings.
( c ) When tank vent piping is manifolded, pipe sizes shall be such as to discharge, within the pressure limitations of the system, the vapors they may be required to handle when manifolded tanks are subject to the same fire exposure.
(vii) Drainage, dikes, and walls for aboveground tanks—(a) Drainage and diked areas. The area surrounding a tank or a group of tanks shall be provided with drainage as in subdivision ( b ) of this subdivision, or shall be diked as provided in subdivision ( c ) of this subdivision, to prevent accidental discharge of liquid from endangering adjoining property or reaching waterways.
( b) Drainage. Where protection of adjoining property or waterways is by means of a natural or manmade drainage system, such systems shall comply with the following:
( 1 ) [Reserved]
( 2 ) The drainage system shall terminate in vacant land or other area or in an impounding basin having a capacity not smaller than that of the largest tank served. This termination area and the route of the drainage system shall be so located that, if the flammable liquids in the drainage system are ignited, the fire will not seriously expose tanks or adjoining property.
( c ) Diked areas. Where protection of adjoining property or waterways is accomplished by retaining the liquid around the tank by means of a dike, the volume of the diked area shall comply with the following requirements:
