§ 1910.142 Temporary labor camps.
(8) Each toilet room shall be lighted naturally, or artificially by a safe type of lighting at all hours of the day and night.
(9) An adequate supply of toilet paper shall be provided in each privy, water closet, or chemical toilet compartment.
(10) Privies and toilet rooms shall be kept in a sanitary condition. They shall be cleaned at least daily.
(e) Sewage disposal facilities. In camps where public sewers are available, all sewer lines and floor drains from buildings shall be connected thereto.
(f) Laundry, handwashing, and bathing facilities. (1) Laundry, handwashing, and bathing facilities shall be provided in the following ratio:
(i) Handwash basin per family shelter or per six persons in shared facilities.
(ii) Shower head for every 10 persons.
(iii) Laundry tray or tub for every 30 persons.
(iv) Slop sink in each building used for laundry, hand washing, and bathing.
(2) Floors shall be of smooth finish but not slippery materials; they shall be impervious to moisture. Floor drains shall be provided in all shower baths, shower rooms, or laundry rooms to remove waste water and facilitate cleaning. All junctions of the curbing and the floor shall be coved. The walls and partitions of shower rooms shall be smooth and impervious to the height of splash.
(3) An adequate supply of hot and cold running water shall be provided for bathing and laundry purposes. Facilities for heating water shall be provided.
(4) Every service building shall be provided with equipment capable of maintaining a temperature of at least 70 degrees F. during cold weather.
(5) Facilities for drying clothes shall be provided.
(6) All service buildings shall be kept clean.
(g) Lighting. Where electric service is available, each habitable room in a camp shall be provided with at least one ceiling-type light fixture and at least one separate floor- or wall-type convenience outlet. Laundry and toilet rooms and rooms where people congregate shall contain at least one ceiling- or wall-type fixture. Light levels in toilet and storage rooms shall be at least 20 foot-candles 30 inches from the floor. Other rooms, including kitchens and living quarters, shall be at least 30 foot-candles 30 inches from the floor.
