§ 1910.37 Maintenance, safeguards, and operational features for exit routes.
(a) The danger to employees must be minimized. (1) Exit routes must be kept free of explosive or highly flammable furnishings or other decorations.
(2) Exit routes must be arranged so that employees will not have to travel toward a high hazard area, unless the path of travel is effectively shielded from the high hazard area by suitable partitions or other physical barriers.
(3) Exit routes must be free and unobstructed. No materials or equipment may be placed, either permanently or temporarily, within the exit route. The exit access must not go through a room that can be locked, such as a bathroom, to reach an exit or exit discharge, nor may it lead into a dead-end corridor. Stairs or a ramp must be provided where the exit route is not substantially level.
(4) Safeguards designed to protect employees during an emergency ( e.g., sprinkler systems, alarm systems, fire doors, exit lighting) must be in proper working order at all times.
(b) Lighting and marking must be adequate and appropriate. (1) Each exit route must be adequately lighted so that an employee with normal vision can see along the exit route.
(2) Each exit must be clearly visible and marked by a sign reading "Exit."
(3) Each exit route door must be free of decorations or signs that obscure the visibility of the exit route door.
(4) If the direction of travel to the exit or exit discharge is not immediately apparent, signs must be posted along the exit access indicating the direction of travel to the nearest exit and exit discharge. Additionally, the line-of-sight to an exit sign must clearly be visible at all times.
(5) Each doorway or passage along an exit access that could be mistaken for an exit must be marked "Not an Exit" or similar designation, or be identified by a sign indicating its actual use ( e.g., closet).
(6) Each exit sign must be illuminated to a surface value of at least five foot-candles (54 lux) by a reliable light source and be distinctive in color. Self-luminous or electroluminescent signs that have a minimum luminance surface value of at least .06 footlamberts (0.21 cd/m 2 ) are permitted.
