§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(vi) All chlorine, caustic, and acid lines shall be marked for positive identification, in accordance with American National Standard A13.1—1967. (4) Bagged or drummed chemicals. Bagged or drummed chemicals require efficient handling to prevent damage and spillage. Certain oxidizing chemicals used in bleaching pulp and also in some sanitizing work require added precautions for safety in storage and handling. In storage, these chemicals must be isolated from combustible materials and other chemicals with which they will react such as acids. They must also be kept dry, clean and uncontaminated. (i) Mechanical pulp process —(1) Pulp grinders. (i) Water wheels directly connected to pulp grinders shall be provided with speed governors limiting the peripheral speed of the grinder to that recommended by the manufacturer. (ii) Doors of pocket grinders shall be arranged so as to keep them from closing accidentally. (2) Butting saws. Hood guards shall be provided on butting saws, in accordance with American National Standard O1.1—1954 (reaffirmed 1961). (3) Floors and platforms. The requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply. (4) Personal protection. Persons exposed to falling material shall wear eye, head, foot, and shin protection equipment, in accordance with American National Standards Z87.1—1968, Z88.2—1969, Z89.1—1969, and Z41.1—1967. (j) Stock preparation —(1) Pulp shredders. (i) Cutting heads shall be completely enclosed except for an opening at the feed side sufficient to permit only entry of stock. The enclosure shall be bolted or locked in place. The enclosure shall be of solid material or with mesh or other openings not exceeding one-half inch. (ii) Either a slanting feed table with its outer edge not less than 36 inches from the cutting head or an automatic feeding device shall be provided. (iii) Repairs for cleaning of blockage shall be done only when the shredder is shutdown and control devices locked. (2) Pulp conveyors. Pulp conveyors and conveyor drive belts and pulleys shall be fully enclosed, or if open and within 7 feet of the floor, shall be constructed and guarded in accordance with American National Standard B20.1—1957.