§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
( e ) The weight of all auxiliary handling devices such as hoist blocks, hooks, and slings shall be considered a part of the load rating.
(iii) Stipulations governing the application of the values in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for crawler, truck, and wheel-mounted cranes shall be in accordance with Crane Load-Stability Test Code, Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J765, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(iv) The effectiveness of these preceding stability factors will be influenced by such additional factors as freely suspended loads, track, wind, or ground conditions, condition and inflation of rubber tires, boom lengths, proper operating speeds for existing conditions, and, in general, careful and competent operation. All of these shall be taken into account by the user.
(2) Load rating chart. A substantial and durable rating chart with clearly legible letters and figures shall be provided with each crane and securely fixed to the crane cab in a location easily visible to the operator while seated at his control station.
(d) Inspection classification —(1) Initial inspection. Prior to initial use all new and altered cranes shall be inspected to insure compliance with provisions of this section.
(2) Regular inspection. Inspection procedure for cranes in regular service is divided into two general classifications based upon the intervals at which inspection should be performed. The intervals in turn are dependent upon the nature of the critical components of the crane and the degree of their exposure to wear, deterioration, or malfunction. The two general classifications are herein designated as "frequent" and "periodic", with respective intervals between inspections as defined below:
(i) Frequent inspection: Daily to monthly intervals.
(ii) Periodic inspection: 1- to 12-month intervals, or as specifically recommended by the manufacturer.
(3) Frequent inspection. Items such as the following shall be inspected for defects at intervals as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section or as specifically indicated including observation during operation for any defects which might appear between regular inspections. Any deficiencies such as listed shall be carefully examined and determination made as to whether they constitute a safety hazard:
(i) All control mechanisms for maladjustment interfering with proper operation: Daily.
(ii) All control mechanisms for excessive wear of components and contamination by lubricants or other foreign matter.
