§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(vii) Based upon the information available at time of the emergency, the employer shall evaluate the incident and the site response capabilities and proceed with the appropriate steps to implement the site emergency response plan.
(m) Illumination. Areas accessible to employees shall be lighted to not less than the minimum illumination intensities listed in the following Table H-120.1 while any work is in progress:

Table H-120.1—Minimum Illumination Intensities in Foot-Candles
--------------------------------------------------------------
Foot-candles Area or operations
-------------------------------
5 General site areas.
3 Excavation and waste areas, accessways, active storage areas, loading platforms, refueling, and field maintenance areas.
5 Indoors: Warehouses, corridors, hallways, and exitways.
5 Tunnels, shafts, and general underground work areas. (Exception: Minimum of 10 foot-candles is required at tunnel and shaft heading during drilling mucking, and scaling. Mine Safety and Health Administration approved cap lights shall be acceptable for use in the tunnel heading.)
10 General shops (e.g., mechanical and electrical equipment rooms, active storerooms, barracks or living quarters, locker or dressing rooms, dining areas, and indoor toilets and workrooms.)
30 First aid stations, infirmaries, and offices.

(n) Sanitation at temporary workplaces —(1) Potable water. (i) An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided on the site.
(ii) Portable containers used to dispense drinking water shall be capable of being tightly closed, and equipped with a tap. Water shall not be dipped from containers.
(iii) Any container used to distribute drinking water shall be clearly marked as to the nature of its contents and not used for any other purpose.
(iv) Where single service cups (to be used but once) are supplied, both a sanitary container for the unused cups and a receptacle for disposing of the used cups shall be provided.
