§ 1910.1450 Occupational exposure to hazardous chemicals in laboratories.
(B) The results of the medical examination and any associated tests;
(C) Any medical condition which may be revealed in the course of the examination which may place the employee at increased risk as a result of exposure to a hazardous chemical found in the workplace; and
(D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the consultation or medical examination and any medical condition that may require further examination or treatment.
(ii) The written opinion shall not reveal specific findings of diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure.
(h) Hazard identification. (1) With respect to labels and safety data sheets:
(i) Employers shall ensure that labels on incoming containers of hazardous chemicals are not removed or defaced.
(ii) Employers shall maintain any safety data sheets that are received with incoming shipments of hazardous chemicals, and ensure that they are readily accessible to laboratory employees.
(2) The following provisions shall apply to chemical substances developed in the laboratory:
(i) If the composition of the chemical substance which is produced exclusively for the laboratory's use is known, the employer shall determine if it is a hazardous chemical as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. If the chemical is determined to be hazardous, the employer shall provide appropriate training as required under paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) If the chemical produced is a byproduct whose composition is not known, the employer shall assume that the substance is hazardous and shall implement paragraph (e) of this section.
(iii) If the chemical substance is produced for another user outside of the laboratory, the employer shall comply with the Hazard Communication Standard (29 CFR 1910.1200) including the requirements for preparation of safety data sheets and labeling.
(i) Use of respirators. Where the use of respirators is necessary to maintain exposure below permissible exposure limits, the employer shall provide, at no cost to the employee, the proper respiratory equipment. Respirators shall be selected and used in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134.
(j) Recordkeeping. (1) The employer shall establish and maintain for each employee an accurate record of any measurements taken to monitor employee exposures and any medical consultation and examinations including tests or written opinions required by this standard.
(2) The employer shall assure that such records are kept, transferred, and made available in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20.
(k) [Reserved]
