§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(ii) Only the loading or unloading machine operator and other personnel the employer demonstrates are essential shall be in the loading or unloading work area during this operation.
(iii) No transport vehicle operator shall remain in the cab during loading and unloading if the logs are carried or moved over the truck cab, unless the employer demonstrates that it is necessary for the operator to do so. Where the transport vehicle operator remains in the cab, the employer shall provide operator protection, such as but not limited to, reinforcement of the cab.
(iv) Each log shall be placed on a transport vehicle in an orderly manner and tightly secured.
(v) The load shall be positioned to prevent slippage or loss during handling and transport.
(vi) Each stake and chock which is used to trip loads shall be so constructed that the tripping mechanism is activated on the side opposite the release of the load.
(vii) Each tie down shall be left in place over the peak log to secure all logs until the unloading lines or other protection the employer demonstrates is equivalent has been put in place. A stake of sufficient strength to withstand the forces of shifting or moving logs, shall be considered equivalent protection provided that the logs are not loaded higher than the stake.
(viii) Each tie down shall be released only from the side on which the unloading machine operates, except as follows:
(A) When the tie down is released by a remote control device; and
(B) When the employee making the release is protected by racks, stanchions or other protection the employer demonstrates is capable of withstanding the force of the logs.
(7) Transport. The transport vehicle operator shall assure that each tie down is tight before transporting the load. While enroute, the operator shall check and tighten the tie downs whenever there is reason to believe that the tie downs have loosened or the load has shifted.
(8) Storage. Each deck shall be constructed and located so it is stable and provides each employee with enough room to safely move and work in the area.
(i) Training. (1) The employer shall provide training for each employee, including supervisors, at no cost to the employee.
(2) Frequency. Training shall be provided as follows:
(i) As soon as possible but not later than the effective date of this section for initial training for each current and new employee;
(ii) Prior to initial assignment for each new employee;
(iii) Whenever the employee is assigned new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines or vehicles; and
(iv) Whenever an employee demonstrates unsafe job performance.
(3) Content. At a minimum, training shall consist of the following elements:
(i) Safe performance of assigned work tasks;
(ii) Safe use, operation and maintenance of tools, machines and vehicles the employee uses or operates, including emphasis on understanding and following the manufacturer's operating and maintenance instructions, warnings and precautions;
(iii) Recognition of safety and health hazards associated with the employee's specific work tasks, including the use of measures and work practices to prevent or control those hazards;
(iv) Recognition, prevention and control of other safety and health hazards in the logging industry;
(v) Procedures, practices and requirements of the employer's work site; and
(vi) The requirements of this standard.
(4) Training of an employee due to unsafe job performance, or assignment of new work tasks, tools, equipment, machines, or vehicles; may be limited to those elements in paragraph (i)(3) of this section which are relevant to the circumstances giving rise to the need for training.
(5) Portability of training. (i) Each current employee who has received training in the particular elements specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section shall not be required to be retrained in those elements.
(ii) Each new employee who has received training in the particular elements specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section shall not be required to be retrained in those elements prior to initial assignment.
(iii) The employer shall train each current and new employee in those elements for which the employee has not received training.
(iv) The employer is responsible for ensuring that each current and new employee can properly and safely perform the work tasks and operate the tools, equipment, machines, and vehicles used in their job.
(6) Each new employee and each employee who is required to be trained as specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, shall work under the close supervision of a designated person until the employee demonstrates to the employer the ability to safely perform their new duties independently.
(7) First-aid training. (i) The employer shall assure that each employee, including supervisors, receives or has received first-aid and CPR training meeting at least the requirements specified in appendix B.
(ii) The employer shall assure that each employee's first-aid and CPR training and/or certificate of training remain current.
(8) All training shall be conducted by a designated person.
(9) The employer shall assure that all training required by this section is presented in a manner that the employee is able to understand. The employer shall assure that all training materials used are appropriate in content and vocabulary to the educational level, literacy, and language skills of the employees being trained.
(10) Certification of training. (i) The employer shall verify compliance with paragraph (i) of this section by preparing a written certification record. The written certification record shall contain the name or other identity of the employee trained, the date(s) of the training, and the signature of the person who conducted the training or the signature of the employer. If the employer relies on training conducted prior to the employee's hiring or completed prior to the effective date of this section, the certification record shall indicate the date the employer determined the prior training was adequate.
(ii) The most recent training certification shall be maintained.
(11) Safety and health meetings. The employer shall hold safety and health meetings as necessary and at least each month for each employee. Safety and health meetings may be conducted individually, in crew meetings, in larger groups, or as part of other staff meetings.
(j) Appendices. Appendices A and B of this section are mandatory. The information contained in appendix C of this section is informational and is not intended to create any additional obligations not otherwise imposed or to detract from existing regulations.
Note: Note: In the Federal Register of August 9, 1995, OSHA extended the stay of the following paragraphs of § 1910.266 until September 8, 1995. The remaining requirements of § 1910.266, which became effective on February 9, 1995, are unaffected by the extension of the partial stay: 1. (d)(1)(v)—insofar as it requires foot protection to be chain-saw resistant. 2. (d)(1)(vii)—insofar as it required face protection. 3. (d)(2)(iii). 4. (f)(2)(iv). 5. (f)(2)(xi). 6. (f)(3)(ii). 7. (f)(3)(vii). 8. (f)(3)(viii). 9. (f)(7)(ii)—insofar as it requires parking brakes to be able to stop a moving machine. 10. (g)(1) and (g)(2) insofar as they require inspection and maintenance of employee-owned vehicles. 11. (h)(2)(vii)—insofar as it precludes backcuts at the level of the horizontal cut of the undercut when the Humboldt cutting method is used.

SAE standard ISO standard Subject
---------------------------------
SAE J1040 ISO 3471-1 Performance Criteria for Rollover Protective Structures (ROPS) for Construction, Earthmoving, Forestry and Mining Machines.
SAE J397 ISO 3164 Deflection Limiting Volume—ROPS/FOPS Laboratory Evaluation.
SAE J231 ISO 3449 Minimum Performance Criteria for Falling Object Protective Structures (FOPS).
SAE J386 ISO 6683 Operator Restraint Systems for Off-Road Work Machines.
SAE J185 ISO 2897 Access Systems for Off-Road Machines.