§ 1910.1027 Cadmium.
(iv) Additional access to information and training program and materials.
(A) The employer shall make a copy of this section and its appendices readily available without cost to all affected employees and shall provide a copy if requested.
(B) The employer shall provide to the Assistant Secretary or the Director, upon request, all materials relating to the employee information and the training program.
(n) Recordkeeping —(1) Exposure monitoring. (i) The employer shall establish and keep an accurate record of all air monitoring for cadmium in the workplace.
(ii) This record shall include at least the following information:
(A) The monitoring date, duration, and results in terms of an 8-hour TWA of each sample taken;
(B) The name and job classification of the employees monitored and of all other employees whose exposures the monitoring is intended to represent;
(C) A description of the sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy;
(D) The type of respiratory protective device, if any, worn by the monitored employee;
(E) A notation of any other conditions that might have affected the monitoring results.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least thirty (30) years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.
(2) Objective data for exemption from requirement for initial monitoring. (i) For purposes of this section, objective data are information demonstrating that a particular product or material containing cadmium or a specific process, operation, or activity involving cadmium cannot release dust or fumes in concentrations at or above the action level even under the worst-case release conditions. Objective data can be obtained from an industry-wide study or from laboratory product test results from manufacturers of cadmium-containing products or materials. The data the employer uses from an industry-wide survey must be obtained under workplace conditions closely resembling the processes, types of material, control methods, work practices and environmental conditions in the employer's current operations.
(ii) The employer shall establish and maintain a record of the objective data for at least 30 years.
(3) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee covered by medical surveillance under paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) The record shall include at least the following information about the employee:
(A) Name and description of the duties;
