§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(vi) Each independent hoisting unit of a crane handling hot metal and having power control braking means shall be equipped with at least two holding brakes.
(3) Control braking means. (i) A power control braking means such as regenerative, dynamic or countertorque braking, or a mechanically controlled braking means shall be capable of maintaining safe lowering speeds of rated loads.
(ii) The control braking means shall have ample thermal capacity for the frequency of operation required by service.
(4) Brakes for trolleys and bridges. (i) Foot-operated brakes shall not require an applied force of more than 70 pounds to develop manufacturer's rated brake torque.
(ii) Brakes may be applied by mechanical, electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or gravity means.
(iii) Where necessary brakes shall be provided with adjustment means to compensate for wear.
(iv) The wearing surface of all brakedrums or discs shall be smooth.
(v) All foot-brake pedals shall be constructed so that the operator's foot will not easily slip off the pedal.
(vi) Foot-operated brakes shall be equipped with automatic means for positive release when pressure is released from the pedal.
(vii) Brakes for stopping the motion of the trolley or bridge shall be of sufficient size to stop the trolley or bridge within a distance in feet equal to 10 percent of full load speed in feet per minute when traveling at full speed with full load.
(viii) If holding brakes are provided on the bridge or trolleys, they shall not prohibit the use of a drift point in the control circuit.
(ix) Brakes on trolleys and bridges shall have ample thermal capacity for the frequency of operation required by the service to prevent impairment of functions from overheating.
(5) Application of trolley brakes. (i) On cab-operated cranes with cab on trolley, a trolley brake shall be required as specified under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(ii) A drag brake may be applied to hold the trolley in a desired position on the bridge and to eliminate creep with the power off.
(6) Application of bridge brakes. (i) On cab-operated cranes with cab on bridge, a bridge brake is required as specified under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
