§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( f ) The heating medium lines into and leaving the vaporizer shall be provided with suitable means for preventing the flow of gas into the heat systems in the event of tube rupture in the vaporizer. Vaporizers shall be provided with suitable automatic means to prevent liquid passing through the vaporizers to the gas discharge piping.
( g ) The device that supplies the necessary heat for producing steam, hot water, or other heating medium may be installed in a building, compartment, room, or lean-to which shall be ventilated near the floorline and roof to the outside. The device location shall be separated from all compartments or rooms containing liquefied petroleum gas vaporizers, pumps, and central gas mixing devices by a wall designed to withstand a static pressure of at least 100 pounds per square foot. This wall shall have no openings or pipes or conduit passing through it. This requirement does not apply to the domestic water heaters which may supply heat for a vaporizer in a domestic system.
( h ) Gas-fired heating systems supplying heat exclusively for vaporization purposes shall be equipped with automatic safety devices to shut off the flow of gas to main burners, if the pilot light should fail.
( i ) Vaporizers may be an integral part of a fuel storage container directly connected to the liquid section or gas section or both.
( j ) Vaporizers shall not be equipped with fusible plugs.
( k ) Vaporizer houses shall not have unprotected drains to sewers or sump pits.
(ii) Atmospheric vaporizers employing heat from the ground or surrounding air shall be installed as follows:
( a ) Buried underground, or
( b ) Located inside the building close to a point at which pipe enters the building provided the capacity of the unit does not exceed 1 quart.
( c ) Vaporizers of less than 1 quart capacity heated by the ground or surrounding air, need not be equipped with safety relief valves provided that adequate tests demonstrate that the assembly is safe without safety relief valves.
(iii) Direct gas-fired vaporizers shall be constructed, marked, and installed as follows:
( a )( 1 ) In accordance with the requirements of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code—1968 that are applicable to the maximum working conditions for which the vaporizer is designed.
( 2 ) With the name of the manufacturer; rated BTU input to the burner; the area of the heat exchange surface in square feet; the outside surface of the vaporizer in square feet; and the maximum vaporizing capacity in gallons per hour.
( b )( 1 ) Vaporizers may be connected to the liquid section or the gas section of the storage container, or both; but in any case there shall be at the container a manually operated valve in each connection to permit completely shutting off when desired, of all flow of gas or liquid from container to vaporizer.
( 2 ) Vaporizers with capacity not exceeding 35 gallons per hour shall be located at least 5 feet from container shutoff valves. Vaporizers having capacity of more than 35 gallons but not exceeding 100 gallons per hour shall be located at least 10 feet from the container shutoff valves. Vaporizers having a capacity greater than 100 gallons per hour shall be located at least 15 feet from container shutoff valves.
( c ) Vaporizers may be installed in buildings, rooms, housings, sheds, or lean-tos used exclusively for vaporizing or mixing of liquefied petroleum gas. Vaporizing housing structures shall be of noncombustible construction, well ventilated near the floorline and the highest point of the roof. When vaporizer and/or mixing equipment is located in a structure or room attached to or within a building, such structure or room shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a wall designed to withstand a static pressure of at least 100 pounds per square foot. This wall shall have no openings or pipes or conduit passing through it. Such structure or room shall be provided with adequate ventilation, and shall have a roof or at least one exterior wall of lightweight construction.
( d ) Vaporizers shall have at or near the discharge, a safety relief valve providing an effective rate of discharge in accordance with paragraph (b)(10)(iii) of this section. The relief valve shall be so located as not to be subjected to temperatures in excess of 140 degrees F.
( e ) Vaporizers shall be provided with suitable automatic means to prevent liquid passing from the vaporizer to the gas discharge piping of the vaporizer.
( f ) Vaporizers shall be provided with means for manually turning off the gas to the main burner and pilot.
( g ) Vaporizers shall be equipped with automatic safety devices to shut off the flow of gas to main burners if the pilot light should fail. When the flow through the pilot exceeds 2,000 B.t.u. per hour, the pilot also shall be equipped with an automatic safety device to shut off the flow of gas to the pilot should the pilot flame be extinguished.
( h ) Pressure regulating and pressure reducing equipment if located within 10 feet of a direct fire vaporizer shall be separated from the open flame by a substantially airtight noncombustible partition or partitions.
( i ) Except as provided in ( c ) of this subdivision, the following minimum distances shall be maintained between direct fired vaporizers and the nearest important building or group of buildings:
( j ) Direct fired vaporizers shall not raise the product pressure above the design pressure of the vaporizer equipment nor shall they raise the product pressure within the storage container above the pressure shown in the second column of Table H-31.
( k ) Vaporizers shall not be provided with fusible plugs.
( l ) Vaporizers shall not have unprotected drains to sewers or sump pits.
(iv) Direct gas-fired tank heaters shall be constructed and installed as follows:
( a ) Direct gas-fired tank heaters, and tanks to which they are applied, shall only be installed above ground.
( b ) Tank heaters shall be permanently marked with the name of the manufacturer, the rated B.t.u. input to the burner, and the maximum vaporizing capacity in gallons per hour.
( c ) Tank heaters may be an integral part of a fuel storage container directly connected to the container liquid section, or vapor section, or both.
( d ) Tank heaters shall be provided with a means for manually turning off the gas to the main burner and pilot.
( e ) Tank heaters shall be equipped with an automatic safety device to shut off the flow of gas to main burners, if the pilot light should fail. When flow through pilot exceeds 2,000 B.t.u. per hour, the pilot also shall be equipped with an automatic safety device to shut off the flow of gas to the pilot should the pilot flame be extinguished.
( f ) Pressure regulating and pressure reducing equipment if located within 10 feet of a direct fired tank heater shall be separated from the open flame by a substantially airtight noncombustible partition.
( g ) The following minimum distances shall be maintained between a storage tank heated by a direct fired tank heater and the nearest important building or group of buildings:
( h ) No direct fired tank heater shall raise the product pressure within the storage container over 75 percent of the pressure set out in the second column of Table H-31.
(v) The vaporizer section of vaporizer-burners used for dehydrators or dryers shall be located outside of buildings; they shall be constructed and installed as follows:
( a ) Vaporizer-burners shall have a minimum design pressure of 250 p.s.i.g. with a factor of safety of five.
( b ) Manually operated positive shut-off valves shall be located at the containers to shut off all flow to the vaporizer-burners.
( c ) Minimum distances between storage containers and vaporizer-burners shall be as follows:

Water capacity per container (gallons) Minimum distances (feet)
---------------------------------------------------------------
Less than 501 10
501 to 2,000 25
Over 2,000 50

( d ) The vaporizer section of vaporizer-burners shall be protected by a hydrostatic relief valve. The relief valve shall be located so as not to be subjected to temperatures in excess of 140 degrees F. The start-to-discharge pressure setting shall be such as to protect the components involved, but not less than 250 p.s.i.g. The discharge shall be directed upward and away from component parts of the equipment and away from operating personnel.
( e ) Vaporizer-burners shall be provided with means for manually turning off the gas to the main burner and pilot.
( f ) Vaporizer-burners shall be equipped with automatic safety devices to shut off the flow of gas to the main burner and pilot in the event the pilot is extinguished.
( g ) Pressure regulating and control equipment shall be located or protected so that the temperatures surrounding this equipment shall not exceed 140 degrees F. except that equipment components may be used at higher temperatures if designed to withstand such temperatures.
( h ) Pressure regulating and control equipment when located downstream of the vaporizer shall be designed to withstand the maximum discharge temperature of the vapor.
( i ) The vaporizer section of vaporizer-burners shall not be provided with fusible plugs.
( j ) Vaporizer coils or jackets shall be made of ferrous metal or high temperature alloys.
( k ) Equipment utilizing vaporizer-burners shall be equipped with automatic shutoff devices upstream and downstream of the vaporizer section connected so as to operate in the event of excessive temperature, flame failure, and, if applicable, insufficient airflow.
(12) Filling densities. (i) The "filling density" is defined as the percent ratio of the weight of the gas in a container to the weight of water the container will hold at 60 degrees F. All containers shall be filled according to the filling densities shown in Table H-27.

Table H-27—Maximum Permitted Filling Density
--------------------------------------------
Specific gravity at 60 degrees F. (15.6 degrees C.) Above ground containers 0 to 1,200 U.S. gals. (1,000 imp. gal., 4,550 liters) total water cap. Over 1,200 U.S. gals. (1,000 imp. gal., 4,550 liters) total water cap. Under ground containers, all capacities
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Percent Percent Percent
0 .496-0 .503 41 44 45
.504- .510 42 45 46
.511- .519 43 46 47
.520- .527 44 47 48
.528- .536 45 48 49
.537- .544 46 49 50
.545- .552 47 50 51
.553- .560 48 51 52
.561- .568 49 52 53
.569- .576 50 53 54
.577- .584 51 54 55
.585- .592 52 55 56
.593- .600 53 56 57

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(12)(iii) of this section, any container including mobile cargo tanks and portable tank containers regardless of size or construction, shipped under DOT jurisdiction or constructed in accordance with 49 CFR chapter I Specifications shall be charged according to 49 CFR chapter I requirements.
(iii) Portable containers not subject to DOT jurisdiction (such as, but not limited to, motor fuel containers on industrial and lift trucks, and farm tractors covered in paragraph (e) of this section, or containers recharged at the installation) may be filled either by weight, or by volume using a fixed length dip tube gaging device.
(13) LP-Gas in buildings. (i) Vapor shall be piped into buildings at pressures in excess of 20 p.s.i.g. only if the buildings or separate areas thereof, ( a ) are constructed in accordance with this section; ( b ) are used excusively to house equipment for vaporization, pressure reduction, gas mixing, gas manufacturing, or distribution, or to house internal combustion engines, industrial processes, research and experimental laboratories, or equipment and processes using such gas and having similar hazard; ( c ) buildings, structures, or equipment under construction or undergoing major renovation.
(ii) Liquid may be permitted in buildings as follows:
( a ) Buildings, or separate areas of buildings, used exclusively to house equipment for vaporization, pressure reduction, gas mixing, gas manufacturing, or distribution, or to house internal combustion engines, industrial processes, research and experimental laboratories, or equipment and processes using such gas and having similar hazard; and when such buildings, or separate areas thereof are constructed in accordance with this section.
( b ) Buildings, structures, or equipment under construction or undergoing major renovation provided the temporary piping meets the following conditions:
( 1 ) Liquid piping inside the building shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (b)(8) of this section, and shall not exceed three-fourths iron pipe size. Copper tubing with an outside diameter of three-fourths inch or less may be used provided it conforms to Type K of Specifications for Seamless Water Tube, ANSI H23.1-1970 (ASTM B88-69) (see Table H-24). All such piping shall be protected against construction hazards. Liquid piping inside buildings shall be kept to a minimum. Such piping shall be securely fastened to walls or other surfaces so as to provide adequate protection from breakage and so located as to subject the liquid line to lowest ambient temperatures.
( 2 ) A shutoff valve shall be installed in each intermediate branch line where it takes off the main line and shall be readily accessible. A shutoff valve shall also be placed at the appliance end of the intermediate branch line. Such shutoff valve shall be upstream of any flexible connector used with the appliance.
( 3 ) Suitable excess flow valves shall be installed in the container outlet line supplying liquid LP-Gas to the building. A suitable excess flow valve shall be installed immediately downstream of each shutoff valve. Suitable excess flow valves shall be installed where piping size is reduced and shall be sized for the reduced size piping.
( 4 ) Hydrostatic relief valves shall be installed in accordance with paragraph (b)(10)(xii) of this section.
( 5 ) The use of hose to carry liquid between the container and the building or at any point in the liquid line, except at the appliance connector, shall be prohibited.
( 6 ) Where flexible connectors are necessary for appliance installation, such connectors shall be as short as practicable and shall comply with paragraph (b)(8)(ii) or (9) of this section.
( 7 ) Release of fuel when any section of piping or appliances is disconnected shall be minimized by either of the following methods:
( i ) Using an approved automatic quick-closing coupling (a type closing in both directions when coupled in the fuel line), or
( ii ) Closing the valve nearest to the appliance and allowing the appliance to operate until the fuel in the line is consumed.
( iii ) Portable containers shall not be taken into buildings except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.
(14) Transfer of liquids. The employer shall assure that (i) at least one attendant shall remain close to the transfer connection from the time the connections are first made until they are finally disconnected, during the transfer of the product.
(ii) Containers shall be filled or used only upon authorization of the owner.
(iii) Containers manufactured in accordance with specifications of 49 CFR part 178 and authorized by 49 CFR chapter 1 as a "single trip" or "nonrefillable container" shall not be refilled or reused in LP-Gas service.
(iv) Gas or liquid shall not be vented to the atmosphere to assist in transferring contents of one container to another, except as provided in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section and except that this shall not preclude the use of listed pump utilizing LP-Gas in the vapor phase as a source of energy and venting such gas to the atmosphere at a rate not to exceed that from a No. 31 drill size opening and provided that such venting and liquid transfer shall be located not less than 50 feet from the nearest important building.
(v) Filling of fuel containers for industrial trucks or motor vehicles from industrial bulk storage containers shall be performed not less than 10 feet from the nearest important masonry-walled building or not less than 25 feet from the nearest important building or other construction and, in any event, not less than 25 feet from any building opening.
(vi) Filling of portable containers, containers mounted on skids, fuel containers on farm tractors, or similar applications, from storage containers used in domestic or commercial service, shall be performed not less than 50 feet from the nearest important building.
(vii) The filling connection and the vent from the liquid level gages in containers, filled at point of installation, shall not be less than 10 feet in any direction from air openings into sealed combustion system appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes.
(viii) Fuel supply containers shall be gaged and charged only in the open air or in buildings especially provided for that purpose.
(ix) The maximum vapor pressure of the product at 100 degrees F. which may be transferred into a container shall be in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (e)(3) of this section. (For DOT containers use DOT requirements.)
(x) Marketers and users shall exercise precaution to assure that only those gases for which the system is designed, examined, and listed, are employed in its operation, particularly with regard to pressures.
(xi) Pumps or compressors shall be designed for use with LP-Gas. When compressors are used they shall normally take suction from the vapor space of the container being filled and discharge to the vapor space of the container being emptied.
(xii) Pumping systems, when equipped with a positive displacement pump, shall include a recirculating device which shall limit the differential pressure on the pump under normal operating conditions to the maximum differential pressure rating of the pump. The discharge of the pumping system shall be protected so that pressure does not exceed 350 p.s.i.g. If a recirculation system discharges into the supply tank and contains a manual shutoff valve, an adequate secondary safety recirculation system shall be incorporated which shall have no means of rendering it inoperative. Manual shutoff valves in recirculation systems shall be kept open except during an emergency or when repairs are being made to the system.
(xiii) When necessary, unloading piping or hoses shall be provided with suitable bleeder valves for relieving pressure before disconnection.
(xiv) Agricultural air moving equipment, including crop dryers, shall be shut down when supply containers are being filled unless the air intakes and sources of ignition on the equipment are located 50 feet or more from the container.
(xv) Agricultural equipment employing open flames or equipment with integral containers, such as flame cultivators, weed burners, and, in addition, tractors, shall be shut down during refueling.
(15) Tank car or transport truck loading or unloading points and operations. (i) The track of tank car siding shall be relatively level.
(ii) A "Tank Car Connected" sign, as covered by DOT rules, shall be installed at the active end or ends of the siding while the tank car is connected.
(iii) While cars are on sidetrack for loading or unloading, the wheels at both ends shall be blocked on the rails.
(iv) The employer shall insure that an employee is in attendance at all times while the tank car, cars, or trucks are being loaded or unloaded.
(v) A backflow check valve, excess-flow valve, or a shutoff valve with means of remote closing, to protect against uncontrolled discharge of LP-Gas from storage tank piping shall be installed close to the point where the liquid piping and hose or swing joint pipe is connected.
(vi) Where practical, the distance of the unloading or loading point shall conform to the distances in subparagraph (6)(ii) of this paragraph.
(16) Instructions. Personnel performing installation, removal, operation, and maintenance work shall be properly trained in such function.
(17) Electrical equipment and other sources of ignition. (i) Electrical equipment and wiring shall be of a type specified by and shall be installed in accordance with subpart S of this part, for ordinary locations except that fixed electrical equipment in classified areas shall comply with subparagraph (18) of this paragraph.
(ii) Open flames or other sources of ignition shall not be permitted in vaporizer rooms (except those housing direct-fired vaporizers), pumphouses, container charging rooms or other similar locations. Direct-fired vaporizers shall not be permitted in pumphouses or container charging rooms.
(iii) Liquefied petroleum gas storage containers do not require lightning protection.
(iv) Since liquefied petroleum gas is contained in a closed system of piping and equipment, the system need not be electrically conductive or electrically bonded for protection against static electricity.
(v) Open flames (except as provided for in paragraph (b)(11) of this section), cutting or welding, portable electric tools, and extension lights capable of igniting LP-Gas, shall not be permitted within classified areas specified in Table H-28 unless the LP-Gas facilities have been freed of all liquid and vapor, or special precautions observed under carefully controlled conditions.

Table H-28
----------
Part Location Extent of classified area 1 Equipment shall be suitable for Class 1, Group D 2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A Storage containers other than DOT cylinders Within 15 feet in all directions from connections, except connections otherwise covered in Table H-28 Division 2.
B Tank vehicle and tank car loading and unloading 3 Within 5 feet in all directions from connections regularly made or disconnected for product transfer Division 1.
 Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from a point where connections are regularly made or disconnected and within the cylindrical volume between the horizontal equator of the sphere and grade. (See Figure H-1) Division 2.
C Gage vent openings other than those on DOT cylinders Within 5 feet in all directions from point of discharge Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from point of discharge Division 1.
 Division 2.
D Relief valve discharge other than those on DOT cylinders Within direct path of discharge Division 1.
 Within 5 feet in all directions from point of discharge Division 1.
 Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from point of discharge except within the direct path of discharge Division 2.
E Pumps, compressors, gas-air mixers and vaporizers other than direct fired
 Indoors without ventilation Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 1.
 Within 15 feet of the exterior side of any exterior wall or roof that is not vaportight or within 15 feet of any exterior opening Division 2.
 Indoors with adequate ventilation 4 Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 2.
 Outdoors in open air at or abovegrade Within 15 feet in all directions from this equipment and within the cylindrical volume between the horizontal equator of the sphere and grade. See Figure H-1 Division 2.
F Service Station Dispensing Units Entire space within dispenser enclosure, and 18 inches horizontally from enclosure exterior up to an elevation 4 ft. above dispenser base. Entire pit or open space beneath dispenser Division 1.
 Up to 18 inches abovegrade within 20 ft. horizontally from any edge of enclosure Division 2.
 Note: For pits within this area, see part F of this table.
G Pits or trenches containing or located beneath LP-Gas valves, pumps, compressors, regulators, and similar equipment
 Without mechanical ventilation Entire pit or trench Division 1.
 Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 1.
 Within 15 feet in all directions from pit or trench when located outdoors Division 2.
 With adequate mechanical ventilation Entire pit or trench Division 2.
 Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 2.
 Within 15 feet in all directions from pit or trench when located outdoors Division 2.
H Special buildings or rooms for storage of portable containers Entire room Division 2.
 Pipelines and connections containing operational bleeds, drips, vents or drains Within 5 ft. in all directions from point of discharge Beyond 5 ft. from point of discharge, same as part E of this table Division 1.
J Container filling:
 Indoors without ventilation Entire room Division 1.
 Indoors with adequate ventilation 4 Within 5 feet in all directions from connections regularly made or disconnected for product transfer Division 1.
 Beyond 5 feet and entire room Division 2.
 Outdoors in open air Within 5 feet in all directions from connections regularly made or disconnected for product transfer Division 1.
 Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from a point where connections are regularly made or disconnected and within the cylindrical volume between the horizontal equator of the sphere and grade. (See Figure H-1) Division 2.

EC27OC91.025 Figure H-1
(18) Fixed electrical equipment in classified areas. Fixed electrical equipment and wiring installed within classified areas specified in Table H-28 shall comply with Table H-28 and shall be installed in accordance with subpart S of this part. This provision does not apply to fixed electrical equipment at residential or commercial installations of LP-Gas systems or to systems covered by paragraph (e) or (g) of this section.
(19) Liquid-level gaging device. (i) Each container manufactured after December 31, 1965, and filled on a volumetric basis shall be equipped with a fixed liquid-level gage to indicate the maximum permitted filling level as provided in paragraph (b)(19)(v) of this section. Each container manufactured after December 31, 1969, shall have permanently attached to the container adjacent to the fixed level gage a marking showing the percentage full that will be shown by that gage. When a variable liquid-level gage is also provided, the fixed liquid-level gage will also serve as a means for checking the variable gage. These gages shall be used in charging containers as required in paragraph (b)(12) of this section.
(ii) All variable gaging devices shall be arranged so that the maximum liquid level for butane, for a 50-50 mixture of butane and propane, and for propane, to which the container may be charged is readily determinable. The markings indicating the various liquid levels from empty to full shall be on the system nameplate or gaging device or part may be on the system nameplate and part on the gaging device. Dials of magnetic or rotary gages shall show whether they are for cylindrical or spherical containers and whether for aboveground or underground service. The dials of gages intended for use only on aboveground containers of over 1,200 gallons water capacity shall be so marked.
(iii) Gaging devices that require bleeding of the product to the atmosphere, such as the rotary tube, fixed tube, and slip tube, shall be designed so that the bleed valve maximum opening is not larger than a No. 54 drill size, unless provided with excess flow valve.
(iv) Gaging devices shall have a design working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g.
(v) Length of tube or position of fixed liquid-level gage shall be designed to indicate the maximum level to which the container may be filled for the product contained. This level shall be based on the volume of the product at 40 degrees F. at its maximum permitted filling density for aboveground containers and at 50 degrees F. for underground containers. The employer shall calculate the filling point for which the fixed liquid level gage shall be designed according to the method in this subdivision.
( a ) It is impossible to set out in a table the length of a fixed dip tube for various capacity tanks because of the varying tank diameters and lengths and because the tank may be installed either in a vertical or horizontal position. Knowing the maximum permitted filling volume in gallons, however, the length of the fixed tube can be determined by the use of a strapping table obtained from the container manufacturer. The length of the fixed tube should be such that when its lower end touches the surface of the liquid in the container, the contents of the container will be the maximum permitted volume as determined by the following formula:
[(Water capacity (gals.) of container* x filling density**) ÷ (Specific gravity of LP-Gas* x volume correction factor x 100)] = Maximum volume of LP-Gas
( b ) Formula for determining maximum volume of liquefied petroleum gas for which a fixed length of dip tube shall be set:

Table H-29—Volume Correction Factors
------------------------------------
Specific gravity Aboveground Underground
----------------------------------------
0.500 1.033 1.017
.510 1.031 1.016
.520 1.029 1.015
.530 1.028 1.014
.540 1.026 1.013
.550 1.025 1.013
.560 1.024 1.012
.570 1.023 1.011
.580 1.021 1.011
.590 1.020 1.010

( c ) The maximum volume of LP-Gas which can be placed in a container when determining the length of the dip tube expressed as a percentage of total water content of the container is calculated by the following formula.
( d ) The maximum weight of LP-Gas which may be placed in a container for determining the length of a fixed dip tube is determined by multiplying the maximum volume of liquefied petroleum gas obtained by the formula in paragraph (b)(19)( b ) of this section by the pounds of liquefied petroleum gas in a gallon at 40 degrees F. for abovegound and at 50 degrees F. for underground containers. For example, typical pounds per gallon are specified below:
Example: Assume a 100-gallon total water capacity tank for aboveground storage of propane having a specific gravity of 0.510 of 60 degrees F. [(100 (gals.) x 42 (filling density from subparagraph (12) of this paragraph)) ÷ (0.510 x 1.031 (correction factor from Table H-29) x 100)] = (4200 ÷ 52.6) (4200 ÷ 52.6) = 79.8 gallons propane, the maximum amount permitted to be placed in a 100-gallon total water capacity aboveground container equipped with a fixed dip tube. [(Maximum volume of LP-Gas (from formula in subdivision ( b ) of this subdivision) x 100) ÷ Total water content of container in gallons] = Maximum percent of LP-Gas

Aboveground, pounds per gallon Underground, pounds per gallon
-------------------------------------------------------------
Propane 4.37 4.31
N Butane 4.97 4.92

(vi) Fixed liquid-level gages used on containers other than DOT containers shall be stamped on the exterior of the gage with the letters "DT" followed by the vertical distance (expressed in inches and carried out to one decimal place) from the top of container to the end of the dip tube or to the centerline of the gage when it is located at the maximum permitted filling level. For portable containers that may be filled in the horizontal and/or vertical position the letters "DT" shall be followed by "V" with the vertical distance from the top of the container to the end of the dip tube for vertical filling and with "H" followed by the proper distance for horizontal filling. For DOT containers the stamping shall be placed both on the exterior of the gage and on the container. On above-ground or cargo containers where the gages are positioned at specific levels, the marking may be specified in percent of total tank contents and the marking shall be stamped on the container.
(vii) Gage glasses of the columnar type shall be restricted to charging plants where the fuel is withdrawn in the liquid phase only. They shall be equipped with valves having metallic handwheels, with excess flow valves, and with extra-heavy glass adequately protected with a metal housing applied by the gage manufacturer. They shall be shielded against the direct rays of the sun. Gage glasses of the columnar type are prohibited on tank trucks, and on motor fuel tanks, and on containers used in domestic, commercial, and industrial installations.
(viii) Gaging devices of the float, or equivalent type which do not require flow for their operation and having connections extending to a point outside the container do not have to be equipped with excess flow valves provided the piping and fittings are adequately designed to withstand the container pressure and are properly protected against physical damage and breakage.
(20) Requirements for appliances. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(20)(ii) of this section, new commercial and industrial gas consuming appliances shall be approved.
(ii) Any appliance that was originally manufactured for operation with a gaseous fuel other than LP-Gas and is in good condition may be used with LP-Gas only after it is properly converted, adapted, and tested for performance with LP-Gas before the appliance is placed in use.
(iii) Unattended heaters used inside buildings for the purpose of animal or poultry production or care shall be equipped with an approved automatic device designed to shut off the flow of gas to the main burners, and pilot if used, in the event of flame extinguishment.
(iv) All commercial, industrial, and agricultural appliances or equipment shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of this section and in accordance with the following NFPA consensus standards, which are incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6:
( a ) Domestic and commercial appliances—NFPA 54-1969, Standard for the Installation of Gas Appliances and Gas Piping.
( b ) Industrial appliances—NFPA 54A-1969, Standard for the Installation of Gas Piping and Gas Equipment on Industrial Premises and Certain Other Premises.
( c ) Standard for the Installation and Use of Stationary Combustion Engines and Gas Turbines—NFPA 37-1970.
( d ) Standard for the Installation of Equipment for the Removal of Smoke and Grease-Laden Vapors from Commercial Cooking Equipment, NFPA 96-1970.
(c) Cylinder systems —(1) Application. This paragraph applies specifically to systems utilizing containers constructed in accordance with DOT Specifications. All requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply to this paragraph unless otherwise noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Marking of containers. Containers shall be marked in accordance with DOT regulations. Additional markings not in conflict with DOT regulations may be used.
(3) Description of a system. A system shall include the container base or bracket, containers, container valves, connectors, manifold valve assembly, regulators, and relief valves.
(4) Containers and regulating equipment installed outside of buildings or structures. (i) Containers shall not be buried below ground. However, this shall not prohibit the installation in a compartment or recess below grade level such as a niche in a slope or terrace wall which is used for no other purpose, providing that the container and regulating equipment are not in contact with the ground and the compartment or recess is drained and ventilated horizontally to the outside air from its lowest level, with the outlet at least 3 feet away from any building opening which is below the level of such outlet.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(10)(xiii) of this section, the discharge from safety relief devices shall be located not less than 3 feet horizontally away from any building opening which is below the level of such discharge and shall not terminate beneath any building unless such space is well ventilated to the outside and is not enclosed on more than two sides.
(ii) Containers shall be set upon firm foundation or otherwise firmly secured; the possible effect on the outlet piping of settling shall be guarded against by a flexible connection or special fitting.
(5) Containers and equipment used inside of buildings or structures. (i) When operational requirements make portable use of containers necessary and their location outside of buildings or structure is impracticable, containers and equipment are permitted to be used inside of buildings or structures in accordance with ( a ) through ( l ) of this subdivision, and, in addition, such other provisions of this subparagraph as are applicable to the particular use or occupancy.
( a ) Containers in use shall mean connected for use.
