§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(11) Axle (bogie) means two or more automotive-type axles mounted in tandem in a frame so as to divide the load between the axles and permit vertical oscillation of the wheels.
(12) The base (mounting) is the traveling base or carrier on which the rotating superstructure is mounted such as a car, truck, crawlers, or wheel platform.
(13) The boom (crane) is a member hinged to the front of the rotating superstructure with the outer end supported by ropes leading to a gantry or A-frame and used for supporting the hoisting tackle.
(14) The boom angle is the angle between the longitudinal centerline of the boom and the horizontal. The boom longitudinal centerline is a straight line between the boom foot pin (heel pin) centerline and boom point sheave pin centerline.
(15) The boom hoist is a hoist drum and rope reeving system used to raise and lower the boom. The rope system may be all live reeving or a combination of live reeving and pendants.
(16) The boom stop is a device used to limit the angle of the boom at the highest position.
(17) A brake is a device used for retarding or stopping motion by friction or power means.
(18) A cab is a housing which covers the rotating superstructure machinery and/or operator's station. On truck-crane trucks a separate cab covers the driver's station.
(19) The clutch is a friction, electromagnetic, hydraulic, pneumatic, or positive mechanical device for engagement or disengagement of power.
(20) The counterweight is a weight used to supplement the weight of the machine in providing stability for lifting working loads.
(21) Designated means selected or assigned by the employer or the employer's representative as being qualified to perform specific duties.
(22) The drum is the cylindrical members around which ropes are wound for raising and lowering the load or boom.
(23) Dynamic (loading) means loads introduced into the machine or its components by forces in motion.
(24) The gantry (A-frame) is a structural frame, extending above the superstructure, to which the boom support ropes are reeved.
