§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( 3 ) American Petroleum Institute Standards No. 12B, Specification for Bolted Production Tanks, Eleventh Edition, May 1958, and Supplement 1, March 1962; No. 12D, Specification for Large Welded Production Tanks, Seventh Edition, August 1957; or No. 12F, Specification for Small Welded Production Tanks, Fifth Edition, March 1961. Tanks built in accordance with these standards shall be used only as production tanks for storage of crude petroleum in oil-producing areas.
( b ) Tanks designed for underground service not exceeding 2,500 gallons capacity may be used aboveground.
( c ) Low-pressure tanks and pressure vessels may be used as atmospheric tanks.
( d ) Atmospheric tanks shall not be used for the storage of a flammable liquid at a temperature at or above its boiling point.
(iv) Low pressure tanks. ( a ) The normal operating pressure of the tank shall not exceed the design pressure of the tank.
( b ) Low-pressure tanks shall be built in accordance with acceptable standards of design. Low-pressure tanks may be built in accordance with the following consensus standards that are incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6:
( 1 ) American Petroleum Institute Standard No. 620. Recommended Rules for the Design and Construction of Large, Welded, Low-Pressure Storage Tanks, Third Edition, 1966.
( 2 ) The principles of the Code for Unfired Pressure Vessels, Section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessels Code, 1968.
( c ) Atmospheric tanks built according to Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., requirements in subdivision (iii)( a ) of and shall be limited to 2.5 p.s.i.g. under emergency venting conditions.
This paragraph may be used for operating pressures not exceeding 1 p.s.i.g.
( d ) Pressure vessels may be used as low-pressure tanks.
(v) Pressure vessels. ( a ) The normal operating pressure of the vessel shall not exceed the design pressure of the vessel.
( b ) Pressure vessels shall be built in accordance with the Code for Unfired Pressure Vessels, Section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code 1968.
