§ 1910.1052 Methylene chloride.
(b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply: Action level means a concentration of airborne MC of 12.5 parts per million (ppm) calculated as an eight (8)-hour time-weighted average (TWA). Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee. Authorized person means any person specifically authorized by the employer and required by work duties to be present in regulated areas, or any person entering such an area as a designated representative of employees for the purpose of exercising the right to observe monitoring and measuring procedures under paragraph (d) of this section, or any other person authorized by the OSH Act or regulations issued under the Act. Director means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. Emergency means any occurrence, such as, but not limited to, equipment failure, rupture of containers, or failure of control equipment, which results, or is likely to result in an uncontrolled release of MC. If an incidental release of MC can be controlled by employees such as maintenance personnel at the time of release and in accordance with the leak/spill provisions required by paragraph (f) of this section, it is not considered an emergency as defined by this standard. Employee exposure means exposure to airborne MC which occurs or would occur if the employee were not using respiratory protection. Methylene chloride (MC) means an organic compound with chemical formula, CH 2 Cl 2 . Its Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number is 75-09-2. Its molecular weight is 84.9 g/mole. Physician or other licensed health care professional is an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice ( i.e. , license, registration, or certification) allows him or her to independently provide or be delegated the responsibility to provide some or all of the health care services required by paragraph (j) of this section. Regulated area means an area, demarcated by the employer, where an employee's exposure to airborne concentrations of MC exceeds or can reasonably be expected to exceed either the 8-hour TWA PEL or the STEL. Symptom means central nervous system effects such as headaches, disorientation, dizziness, fatigue, and decreased attention span; skin effects such as chapping, erythema, cracked skin, or skin burns; and cardiac effects