§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(ii) Baled paper and rags stored inside a building shall not be piled closer than 18 inches to walls, partitions, or sprinkler heads.
(3) Piling and unpiling pulp. (i) Piles of wet lap pulp (unless palletized) shall be stepped back one-half the width of the sheet for each 8 feet of pile height. Sheets of pulp shall be interlapped to make the pile secure. Pulp shall not be piled over pipelines to jeopardize pipes, or so as to cause overloading of floors, or to within 18 inches below sprinkler heads.
(ii) Piles of pulp shall not be undermined when being unpiled.
(iii) Floor capacities shall be clearly marked on all floors.
(4)(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Where rolls are pyramided two or more high, chocks shall be installed between each roll on the floor and at every row. Where pulp and paper rolls are stored on smooth floors in processing areas, rubber chocks with wooden core shall be used.
(iii) When rolls are decked two or more high, the bottom rolls shall be chocked on each side to prevent shifting in either direction.
(e) Preparing pulpwood —(1) Gang and slasher saws. A guard shall be provided in front of all gang and slasher saws to protect workers from wood thrown by saws. A guard shall be placed over tail sprockets.
(2) Slasher tables. Saws shall be stopped and power switches shall be locked out and tagged whenever it is necessary for any person to be on the slasher table.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Runway to the jack ladder. The runway from the pond or unloading dock to the table shall be protected with standard handrails and toeboards. Inclined portions shall have cleats or equivalent nonslip surfacing that complies with subpart D of this part. Protective equipment shall be provided for persons working over water.
(5) Guards below table. Where not protected by the frame of the machine, the underside of the slasher saws shall be enclosed with guards.
(6) Conveyors. The requirements of paragraph (c)(15)(iv) of this section shall apply.
(7) [Reserved]
