§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(13) Storage bridge crane means a gantry type crane of long span usually used for bulk storage of material; the bridge girders or trusses are rigidly or nonrigidly supported on one or more legs. It may have one or more fixed or hinged cantilever ends.
(14) Wall crane means a crane having a jib with or without trolley and supported from a side wall or line of columns of a building. It is a traveling type and operates on a runway attached to the side wall or columns.
(15) Appointed means assigned specific responsibilities by the employer or the employer's representative.
(16) ANSI means the American National Standards Institute.
(17) An auxiliary hoist is a supplemental hoisting unit of lighter capacity and usually higher speed than provided for the main hoist.
(18) A brake is a device used for retarding or stopping motion by friction or power means.
(19) A drag brake is a brake which provides retarding force without external control.
(20) A holding brake is a brake that automatically prevents motion when power is off.
(21) Bridge means that part of a crane consisting of girders, trucks, end ties, footwalks, and drive mechanism which carries the trolley or trolleys.
(22) Bridge travel means the crane movement in a direction parallel to the crane runway.
(23) A bumper (buffer) is an energy absorbing device for reducing impact when a moving crane or trolley reaches the end of its permitted travel; or when two moving cranes or trolleys come in contact.
(24) The cab is the operator's compartment on a crane.
(25) Clearance means the distance from any part of the crane to a point of the nearest obstruction.
(26) Collectors current are contacting devices for collecting current from runway or bridge conductors.
(27) Conductors, bridge are the electrical conductors located along the bridge structure of a crane to provide power to the trolley.
(28) Conductors, runway (main) are the electrical conductors located along a crane runway to provide power to the crane.
(29) The control braking means is a method of controlling crane motor speed when in an overhauling condition.
(30) Countertorque means a method of control by which the power to the motor is reversed to develop torque in the opposite direction.
