§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(iii) Where rerating is necessary:
( a ) Crawler, truck, and wheel-mounted cranes shall be tested in accordance with SAE Recommended Practice, Crane Load Stability Test Code J765 (April 1961).
( b ) Locomotive cranes shall be tested in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section.
( c ) Rerating test report shall be readily available.
(iv) No cranes shall be rerated in excess of the original load ratings unless such rating changes are approved by the crane manufacturer or final assembler.
(f) Maintenance procedure—General. After adjustments and repairs have been made the crane shall not be operated until all guards have been reinstalled, safety devices reactivated, and maintenance equipment removed.
(g) Rope inspection —(1) Running ropes. A thorough inspection of all ropes in use shall be made at least once a month and a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and an identifier for the ropes shall be prepared and kept on file where readily available. All inspections shall be performed by an appointed or authorized person. Any deterioration, resulting in appreciable loss of original strength shall be carefully observed and detemination made as to whether further use of the rope would constitute a safety hazard. Some of the conditions that could result in an appreciable loss of strength are the following:
(i) Reduction of rope diameter below nominal diameter due to loss of core support, internal or external corrosion, or wear of outside wires.
(ii) A number of broken outside wires and the degree of distribution of concentration of such broken wires.
(iii) Worn outside wires.
(iv) Corroded or broken wires at end connections.
(v) Corroded, cracked, bent, worn, or improperly applied end connections.
(vi) Severe kinking, crushing, cutting, or unstranding.
(2) Other ropes. (i) Heavy wear and/or broken wires may occur in sections in contact with equalizer sheaves or other sheaves where rope travel is limited, or with saddles. Particular care shall be taken to inspect ropes at these locations.
