§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(C) All bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles intended for reuse which have a reasonable likelihood for becoming contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be inspected and decontaminated on a regularly scheduled basis and cleaned and decontaminated immediately or as soon as feasible upon visible contamination.
(D) Broken glassware which may be contaminated shall not be picked up directly with the hands. It shall be cleaned up using mechanical means, such as a brush and dust pan, tongs, or forceps.
(E) Reusable sharps that are contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious materials shall not be stored or processed in a manner that requires employees to reach by hand into the containers where these sharps have been placed.
(iii) Regulated Waste —(A) Contaminated Sharps Discarding and Containment. ( 1 ) Contaminated sharps shall be discarded immediately or as soon as feasible in containers that are:
( i ) Closable;
( ii ) Puncture resistant;
( iii ) Leakproof on sides and bottom; and
( iv ) Labeled or color-coded in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this standard.
( 2 ) During use, containers for contaminated sharps shall be:
( i ) Easily accessible to personnel and located as close as is feasible to the immediate area where sharps are used or can be reasonably anticipated to be found (e.g., laundries);
( ii ) Maintained upright throughout use; and
( iii ) Replaced routinely and not be allowed to overfill.
( 3 ) When moving containers of contaminated sharps from the area of use, the containers shall be:
( i ) Closed immediately prior to removal or replacement to prevent spillage or protrusion of contents during handling, storage, transport, or shipping;
( ii ) Placed in a secondary container if leakage is possible. The second container shall be:
( A ) Closable;
( B ) Constructed to contain all contents and prevent leakage during handling, storage, transport, or shipping; and
( C ) Labeled or color-coded according to paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this standard.
( 4 ) Reusable containers shall not be opened, emptied, or cleaned manually or in any other manner which would expose employees to the risk of percutaneous injury.
(B) Other Regulated Waste Containment —( 1 ) Regulated waste shall be placed in containers which are:
