§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( a ) The sensitivity of the blasting agent shall be determined by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap at regular intervals and after every change in formulation.
( b ) Oxidizers of small particle size, such as crushed ammonium nitrate prills or fines, may be more sensitive than coarser products and shall, therefore, be handled with greater care.
( c ) No hydrocarbon liquid fuel with flashpoint lower than that of No. 2 diesel fuel oil 125 degrees F. minimum shall be used.
( d ) Crude oil and crankcase oil shall not be used.
( e ) Metal powders such as aluminum shall be kept dry and shall be stored in containers or bins which are moisture-resistant or weathertight. Solid fuels shall be used in such manner as to minimize dust explosion hazards.
( f ) Peroxides and chlorates shall not be used.
(v) All electrical switches, controls, motors, and lights located in the mixing room shall conform to the requirements in subpart S of this part for Class II, Division 2 locations; otherwise they shall be located outside the mixing room. The frame of the mixer and all other equipment that may be used shall be electrically bonded and be provided with a continuous path to the ground.
(vi) Safety precautions at mixing plants shall include the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) Floors shall be constructed so as to eliminate floor drains and piping into which molten materials could flow and be confined in case of fire.
( b ) The floors and equipment of the mixing and packaging room shall be cleaned regularly and thoroughly to prevent accumulation of oxidizers or fuels and other sensitizers.
( c ) The entire mixing and packaging plant shall be cleaned regularly and thoroughly to prevent excessive accumulation of dust.
( d ) Smoking, matches, open flames, spark-producing devices, and firearms (except firearms carried by guards) shall not be permitted inside of or within 50 feet of any building or facility used for the mixing of blasting agents.
( e ) The land surrounding the mixing plant shall be kept clear of brush, dried grass, leaves, and other materials for a distance of at least 25 feet.
( f ) Empty ammonium nitrate bags shall be disposed of daily in a safe manner.
( g ) No welding shall be permitted or open flames used in or around the mixing or storage area of the plant unless the equipment or area has been completely washed down and all oxidizer material removed.
( h ) Before welding or repairs to hollow shafts, all oxidizer material shall be removed from the outside and inside of the shaft and the shaft vented with a minimum one-half inch diameter opening.
( i ) Explosives shall not be permitted inside of or within 50 feet of any building or facility used for the mixing of blasting agents.
(3) Bulk delivery and mixing vehicles. (i) The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to off-highway private operations as well as to all public highway movements.
(ii) A bulk vehicle body for delivering and mixing blasting agents shall conform with the requirements of this paragraph (ii).
( a ) The body shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
( b ) Vehicles used to transport bulk premixed blasting agents on public highways shall have closed bodies.
( c ) All moving parts of the mixing system shall be designed as to prevent a heat buildup. Shafts or axles which contact the product shall have outboard bearings with 1-inch minimum clearance between the bearings and the outside of the product container. Particular attention shall be given to the clearances on all moving parts.
( d ) A bulk delivery vehicle shall be strong enough to carry the load without difficulty and be in good mechanical condition.
(iii) Operation of bulk delivery vehicles shall conform to the requirements of this subdivision. These include the placarding requirements as specified by Department of Transportation.
( a ) The operator shall be trained in the safe operation of the vehicle together with its mixing, conveying, and related equipment. The employer shall assure that the operator is familiar with the commodities being delivered and the general procedure for handling emergency situations.
( b ) The hauling of either blasting caps or other explosives but not both, shall be permitted on bulk trucks provided that a special wood or nonferrous-lined container is installed for the explosives. Such blasting caps or other explosives shall be in DOT-specified shipping containers: see 49 CFR chapter I.
( c ) No person shall smoke, carry matches or any flame-producing device, or carry any firearms while in or about bulk vehicles effecting the mixing transfer or down-the-hole loading of blasting agents at or near the blasting site.
( d ) Caution shall be exercised in the movement of the vehicle in the blasting area to avoid driving the vehicle over or dragging hoses over firing lines, cap wires, or explosive materials. The employer shall assure that the driver, in moving the vehicle, has assistance of a second person to guide his movements.
( e ) No intransit mixing of materials shall be performed.
(iv) Pneumatic loading from bulk delivery vehicles into blastholes primed with electric blasting caps or other static-sensitive systems shall conform to the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) A positive grounding device shall be used to prevent the accumulation of static electricity.
( b ) A discharge hose shall be used that has a resistance range that will prevent conducting stray currents, but that is conductive enough to bleed off static buildup.
( c ) A qualified person shall evaluate all systems to determine if they will adequately dissipate static under potential field conditions.
(v) Repairs to bulk delivery vehicles shall conform to the requirements of this section.
( a ) No welding or open flames shall be used on or around any part of the delivery equipment unless it has been completely washed down and all oxidizer material removed.
( b ) Before welding or making repairs to hollow shafts, the shaft shall be thoroughly cleaned inside and out and vented with a minimum one-half-inch diameter opening.
(4) Bulk storage bins. (i) The bin, including supports, shall be constructed of compatible materials, waterproof, and adequately supported and braced to withstand the combination of all loads including impact forces arising from product movement within the bin and accidental vehicle contact with the support legs.
(ii) The bin discharge gate shall be designed to provide a closure tight enough to prevent leakage of the stored product. Provision shall also be made so that the gate can be locked.
(iii) Bin loading manways or access hatches shall be hinged or otherwise attached to the bin and be designed to permit locking.
(iv) Any electrically driven conveyors for loading or unloading bins shall conform to the requirements of subpart S of this part. They shall be designed to minimize damage from corrosion.
(v) Bins containing blasting agent shall be located, with respect to inhabited buildings, passenger railroads, and public highways, in accordance with Table-21 and separation from other blasting agent storage and explosives storage shall be in conformity with Table H-22.
(vi) Bins containing ammonium nitrate shall be separated from blasting agent storage and explosives storage in conformity with Table H-22.

Table H-22—Table of Recommended Separation Distances of Ammonium Nitrate and Blasting Agents From Explosives or Blasting Agents 1-6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Donor weight Pounds over Pounds not over Minimum separation distance of receptor when barricaded 2 (ft.) Ammonium nitrate 3 Blasting agent 4 Minimum thickness of artificial barricades 5 (in.)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 100 3 11 12
100 300 4 14 12
300 600 5 18 12
600 1,000 6 22 12
1,000 1,600 7 25 12
1,600 2,000 8 29 12
2,000 3,000 9 32 15
3,000 4,000 10 36 15
4,000 6,000 11 40 15
6,000 8,000 12 43 20
8,000 10,000 13 47 20
10,000 12,000 14 50 20
12,000 16,000 15 54 25
16,000 20,000 16 58 25
20,000 25,000 18 65 25
25,000 30,000 19 68 30
30,000 35,000 20 72 30
35,000 40,000 21 76 30
40,000 45,000 22 79 35
45,000 50,000 23 83 35
50,000 55,000 24 86 35
55,000 60,000 25 90 35
60,000 70,000 26 94 40
70,000 80,000 28 101 40
80,000 90,000 30 108 40
90,000 100,000 32 115 40
100,000 120,000 34 122 50
120,000 140,000 37 133 50
140,000 160,000 40 144 50
160,000 180,000 44 158 50
180,000 200,000 48 173 50
200,000 220,000 52 187 60
220,000 250,000 56 202 60
250,000 275,000 60 216 60
275,000 300,000 64 230 60

(5) Storage of blasting agents and supplies. (i) Blasting agents and oxidizers used for mixing of blasting agents shall be stored in the manner set forth in this subdivision.
( a ) Blasting agents or ammonium nitrate, when stored in conjunction with explosives, shall be stored in the manner set forth in paragraph (c) of this section for explosives. The mass of blasting agents and one-half the mass of ammonium nitrate shall be included when computing the total quantity of explosives for determining distance requirements.
( b ) Blasting agents, when stored entirely separate from explosives, may be stored in the manner set forth in paragraph (c) of this section or in one-story warehouses (without basements) which shall be:
( 1 ) Noncombustible or fire resistive;
( 2 ) Constructed so as to eliminate open floor drains and piping into which molten materials could flow and be confined in case of fire;
( 3 ) Weather resistant;
( 4 ) Well ventilated; and
( 5 ) Equipped with a strong door kept securely locked except when open for business.
( c ) Semitrailer or full-trailer vans used for highway or onsite transportation of the blasting agents are satisfactory for temporarily storing these materials, provided they are located in accordance with Table H-22 with respect to one another. Trailers shall be provided with substantial means for locking, and the trailer doors shall be kept locked, except during the time of placement and removal of stocks of blasting agents.
(ii) Warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents separate from explosives shall be located as set forth in this subdivision.
( a ) Warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents shall be located in Table H-22 with respect to one another.
( b ) If both blasting agents and ammonium nitrate are handled or stored within the distance limitations prescribed through paragraph (g)(2) of this section, one-half the mass of the ammonium nitrate shall be added to the mass of the blasting agent when computing the total quantity of explosives for determining the proper distance for compliance with Table H-21.
(iii) Smoking, matches, open flames, spark producing devices, and firearms are prohibited inside of or within 50 feet of any warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents. Combustible materials shall not be stored within 50 feet of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents.
(iv) The interior of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents shall be kept clean and free from debris and empty containers. Spilled materials shall be cleaned up promptly and safely removed. Combustible materials, flammable liquids, corrosive acids, chlorates, or nitrates shall not be stored in any warehouse used for blasting agents unless separated therefrom by a fire resistive separation of not less than 1 hour resistance. The provisions of this subdivision shall not prohibit the storage of blasting agents together with nonexplosive blasting supplies.
(v) Piles of ammonium nitrate and warehouses containing ammonium nitrate shall be adequately separated from readily combustible fuels.
(vi) Caked oxidizers, either in bags or in bulk, shall not be loosened by blasting.
(vii) Every warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents shall be under the supervision of a competent person.
(6) Transportation of packaged blasting agents. (i) When blasting agents are transported in the same vehicle with explosives, all of the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section shall be complied with.
(ii) Vehicles transporting blasting agents shall only be driven by and be in charge of a driver in possession of a valid motor vehicle operator's license. Such a person shall also be familiar with the State's vehicle and traffic laws.
(iii) No matches, firearms, acids, or other corrosive liquids shall be carried in the bed or body of any vehicle containing blasting agents.
(iv) No person shall be permitted to ride upon, drive, load, or unload a vehicle containing blasting agents while smoking or under the influence of intoxicants, narcotics, or other dangerous drugs.
(v) [Reserved]
(vi) Vehicles transporting blasting agents shall be in safe operating condition at all times.
(7) Use of blasting agents. Persons using blasting agents shall comply with all of the applicable provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
(h) Water gel (Slurry) explosives and blasting agents —(1) General provisions. Unless otherwise set forth in this paragraph, water gels shall be transported, stored and used in the same manner as explosives or blasting agents in accordance with the classification of the product.
(2) Types and classifications. (i) Water gels containing a substance in itself classified as an explosive shall be classified as an explosive and manufactured, transported, stored, and used as specified for "explosives" in this section, except as noted in subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph.
(ii) Water gels containing no substance in itself classified as an explosive and which are cap-sensitive as defined in paragraph (a) of this section under Blasting Agent shall be classified as an explosive and manufactured, transported, stored and used as specified for "explosives" in this section.
(iii) Water gels containing no substance in itself classified as an explosive and which are not cap-sensitive as defined in paragraph (a) of this section under Blasting Agent shall be classified as blasting agents and manufactured, transported, stored, and used as specified for "blasting agents" in this section.
(iv) When tests on specific formulations of water gels result in Department of Transportation classification as a Class B explosive, bullet-resistant magazines are not required, see paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3) Fixed location mixing.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Buildings used for the mixing of water gels shall conform to the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) Buildings shall be of noncombustible construction or sheet metal on wood studs.
( b ) Floors in a mixing plant shall be of concrete or of other nonabsorbent materials.
( c ) Where fuel oil is used all fuel oil storage facilities shall be separated from the mixing plant and located in such a manner that in case of tank rupture, the oil will drain away from the mixing plant building.
( d ) The building shall be well ventilated.
( e ) Heating units that do not depend on combustion processes, when properly designed and located, may be used in the building. All direct sources of heat shall be provided exclusively from units located outside of the mixing building.
( f ) All internal-combustion engines used for electric power generation shall be located outside the mixing plant building, or shall be properly ventilated and isolated by a firewall. The exhaust systems on all such engines shall be located so any spark emission cannot be a hazard to any materials in or adjacent to the plant.
(iii) Ingredients of water gels shall conform to the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) Ingredients in themselves classified as Class A or Class B explosives shall be stored in conformity with paragraph (c) of this section.
( b ) Nitrate-water solutions may be stored in tank cars, tank trucks, or fixed tanks without quantity or distance limitations. Spills or leaks which may contaminate combustible materials shall be cleaned up immediately.
( c ) Metal powders such as aluminum shall be kept dry and shall be stored in containers or bins which are moisture-resistant or weathertight. Solid fuels shall be used in such manner as to minimize dust explosion hazards.
( d ) Ingredients shall not be stored with incompatible materials.
( e ) Peroxides and chlorates shall not be used.
(iv) Mixing equipment shall comply with the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) The design of the processing equipment, including mixing and conveying equipment, shall be compatible with the relative sensitivity of the materials being handled. Equipment shall be designed to minimize the possibility of frictional heating, compaction, overloading, and confinement.
( b ) Both equipment and handling procedures shall be designed to prevent the introduction of foreign objects or materials.
( c ) Mixers, pumps, valves, and related equipment shall be designed to permit regular and periodic flushing, cleaning, dismantling, and inspection.
( d ) All electrical equipment including wiring, switches, controls, motors, and lights, shall conform to the requirements of subpart S of this part.
( e ) All electric motors and generators shall be provided with suitable overload protection devices. Electrical generators, motors, proportioning devices, and all other electrical enclosures shall be electrically bonded. The grounding conductor to all such electrical equipment shall be effectively bonded to the service-entrance ground connection and to all equipment ground connections in a manner so as to provide a continuous path to ground.
(v) Mixing facilities shall comply with the fire prevention requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) The mixing, loading, and ingredient transfer areas where residues or spilled materials may accumulate shall be cleaned periodically. A cleaning and collection system for dangerous residues shall be provided. ,
( b ) A daily visual inspection shall be made of mixing, conveying, and electrical equipment to establish that such equipment is in good operating condition. A program of systematic maintenance shall be conducted on regular schedule.
( c ) Heaters which are not dependent on the combustion process within the heating unit may be used within the confines of processing buildings, or compartments, if provided with temperature and safety controls and located away from combustible materials and the finished product.
(4) Bulk delivery and mixing vehicles. (i) The design of vehicles shall comply with the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) Vehicles used over public highways for the bulk transportation of water gels or of ingredients classified as dangerous commodities, shall meet the requirements of the Department of Transportation and shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (g)(6) of this section.
( b ) When electric power is supplied by a self-contained motor generator located on the vehicle the generator shall be at a point separate from where the water gel is discharged.
( c ) The design of processing equipment and general requirements shall conform to subparagraphs (3) (iii) and (iv) of this paragraph.
( d ) A positive action parking brake, which will set the wheel brakes on at least one axle shall be provided on vehicles when equipped with air brakes and shall be used during bulk delivery operations. Wheel chocks shall supplement parking brakes whenever conditions may require.
(ii) Operation of bulk delivery and mixing vehicles shall comply with the requirements of this subdivision.
( a ) The placarding requirements contained in DOT regulations apply to vehicles carrying water gel explosives or blasting agents.
( b ) The operator shall be trained in the safe operation of the vehicle together with its mixing, conveying, and related equipment. He shall be familiar with the commodities being delivered and the general procedure for handling emergency situations.
( c ) The hauling of either blasting caps or other explosives, but not both, shall be permitted on bulk trucks provided that a special wood or nonferrous-lined container is installed for the explosives. Such blasting caps or other explosives shall be in DOT-specified shipping containers; see 49 CFR chapter I.
( d ) No person shall be allowed to smoke, carry matches or any flame-producing device, or carry any firearms while in or about bulk vehicles effecting the mixing, transfer, or down-the-hole loading of water gels at or near the blasting site.
( e ) Caution shall be exercised in the movement of the vehicle in the blasting area to avoid driving the vehicle over or dragging hoses over firing lines, cap wires, or explosive materials. The employer shall furnish the driver the assistance of a second person to guide the driver's movements.
( f ) No intransit mixing of materials shall be performed.
( g ) The location chosen for water gel or ingredient transfer from a support vehicle into the borehole loading vehicle shall be away from the blasthole site when the boreholes are loaded or in the process of being loaded.
(i) Storage of ammonium nitrate —(1) Scope and definitions. (i)( a ) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1)(i)( d ) of this paragraph applies to the storage of ammonium nitrate in the form of crystals, flakes, grains, or prills including fertilizer grade, dynamite grade, nitrous oxide grade, technical grade, and other mixtures containing 60 percent or more ammonium nitrate by weight but does not apply to blasting agents.
( b ) This paragraph does not apply to the transportation of ammonium nitrate.
( c ) This paragraph does not apply to storage under the jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations of the U.S. Coast Guard (see 46 CFR parts 146-149).
( d ) The storage of ammonium nitrate and ammonium nitrate mixtures that are more sensitive than allowed by the "Definition of Test Procedures for Ammonium Nitrate Fertilizer" is prohibited.
(ii)( a ) [Reserved]
( b ) The standards for ammonium nitrate (nitrous oxide grade) are those found in the "Specifications, Properties, and Recommendations for Packaging, Transportation, Storage, and Use of Ammonium Nitrate", available from the Compressed Gas Association, Inc., which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(2) General provisions. (i) This paragraph applies to all persons storing, having, or keeping ammonium nitrate, and to the owner or lessee of any building, premises, or structure in which ammonium nitrate is stored in quantities of 1,000 pounds or more.
(ii) Approval of large quantity storage shall be subject to due consideration of the fire and explosion hazards, including exposure to toxic vapors from burning or decomposing ammonium nitrate.
(iii)( a ) Storage buildings shall not have basements unless the basements are open on at least one side. Storage buildings shall not be over one story in height.
( b ) Storage buildings shall have adequate ventilation or be of a construction that will be self-ventilating in the event of fire.
( c ) The wall on the exposed side of a storage building within 50 feet of a combustible building, forest, piles of combustible materials and similar exposure hazards shall be of fire-resistive construction. In lieu of the fire-resistive wall, other suitable means of exposure protection such as a free standing wall may be used. The roof coverings shall be Class C or better, as defined in the Manual on Roof Coverings, NFPA 203M-1970, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
( d ) All flooring in storage and handling areas, shall be of noncombustible material or protected against impregnation by ammonium nitrate and shall be without open drains, traps, tunnels, pits, or pockets into which any molten ammonium nitrate could flow and be confined in the event of fire.
( e ) The continued use of an existing storage building or structure not in strict conformity with this paragraph may be approved in cases where such continued use will not constitute a hazard to life.
( f ) Buildings and structures shall be dry and free from water seepage through the roof, walls, and floors.
(3) Storage of ammonium nitrate in bags, drums, or other containers. (i)( a ) Bags and containers used for ammonium nitrate must comply with specifications and standards required for use in interstate commerce (see 49 CFR chapter I).
( b ) Containers used on the premises in the actual manufacturing or processing need not comply with provisions of paragraph (i)(3)(i)( a ) of this paragraph.
(ii)( a ) Containers of ammonium nitrate shall not be accepted for storage when the temperature of the ammonium nitrate exceeds 130 degrees F.
( b ) Bags of ammonium nitrate shall not be stored within 30 inches of the storage building walls and partitions.
( c ) The height of piles shall not exceed 20 feet. The width of piles shall not exceed 20 feet and the length 50 feet except that where the building is of noncombustible construction or is protected by automatic sprinklers the length of piles shall not be limited. In no case shall the ammonium nitrate be stacked closer than 36 inches below the roof or supporting and spreader beams overhead.
( d ) Aisles shall be provided to separate piles by a clear space of not less than 3 feet in width. At least one service or main aisle in the storage area shall be not less than 4 feet in width.
(4) Storage of bulk ammonium nitrate. (i)( a ) Warehouses shall have adequate ventilation or be capable of adequate ventilation in case of fire.
( b ) Unless constructed of noncombustible material or unless adequate facilities for fighting a roof fire are available, bulk storage structures shall not exceed a height of 40 feet.
(ii)( a ) Bins shall be clean and free of materials which may contaminate ammonium nitrate.
( b ) Due to the corrosive and reactive properties of ammonium nitrate, and to avoid contamination, galvanized iron, copper, lead, and zinc shall not be used in a bin construction unless suitably protected. Aluminum bins and wooden bins protected against impregnation by ammonium nitrate are permissible. The partitions dividing the ammonium nitrate storage from other products which would contaminate the ammonium nitrate shall be of tight construction.
( c ) The ammonium nitrate storage bins or piles shall be clearly identified by signs reading "Ammonium Nitrate" with letters at least 2 inches high.
(iii)( a ) Piles or bins shall be so sized and arranged that all material in the pile is moved out periodically in order to minimize possible caking of the stored ammonium nitrate.
( b ) Height or depth of piles shall be limited by the pressure-setting tendency of the product. However, in no case shall the ammonium nitrate be piled higher at any point than 36 inches below the roof or supporting and spreader beams overhead.
( c ) Ammonium nitrate shall not be accepted for storage when the temperature of the product exceeds 130 degrees F.
( d ) Dynamite, other explosives, and blasting agents shall not be used to break up or loosen caked ammonium nitrate.
(5) Contaminants. (i)( a ) Ammonium nitrate shall be in a separate building or shall be separated by approved type firewalls of not less than 1 hour fire-resistance rating from storage of organic chemicals, acids, or other corrosive materials, materials that may require blasting during processing or handling, compressed flammable gases, flammable and combustible materials or other contaminating substances, including but not limited to animal fats, baled cotton, baled rags, baled scrap paper, bleaching powder, burlap or cotton bags, caustic soda, coal, coke, charcoal, cork, camphor, excelsior, fibers of any kind, fish oils, fish meal, foam rubber, hay, lubricating oil, linseed oil, or other oxidizable or drying oils, naphthalene, oakum, oiled clothing, oiled paper, oiled textiles, paint, straw, sawdust, wood shavings, or vegetable oils. Walls referred to in this subdivision need extend only to the underside of the roof.
( b ) In lieu of separation walls, ammonium nitrate may be separated from the materials referred to in paragraph ( a ) of this section by a space of at least 30 feet.
( c ) Flammable liquids such as gasoline, kerosene, solvents, and light fuel oils shall not be stored on the premises except when such storage conforms to § 1910.106, and when walls and sills or curbs are provided in accordance with paragraphs (i)(5)(i) ( a ) or ( b ) of this section.
( d ) LP-Gas shall not be stored on the premises except when such storage conforms to § 1910.110.
(ii)( a ) Sulfur and finely divided metals shall not be stored in the same building with ammonium nitrate except when such storage conforms to paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
( b ) Explosives and blasting agents shall not be stored in the same building with ammonium nitrate except on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents.
( c ) Where explosives or blasting agents are stored in separate buildings, other than on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents, they shall be separated from the ammonium nitrate by the distances and/or barricades specified in Table H-22 of this subpart, but by not less than 50 feet.
( d ) Storage and/or operations on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents shall be in conformity with paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(6) General precautions. (i) Electrical installations shall conform to the requirements of subpart S of this part, for ordinary locations. They shall be designed to minimize damage from corrosion.
(ii) In areas where lightning storms are prevalent, lightning protection shall be provided. (See the Lightning Protection Code, NFPA 78-1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.)
(iii) Provisions shall be made to prevent unauthorized personnel from entering the ammonium nitrate storage area.
(7) Fire protection. (i) Not more than 2,500 tons (2270 tonnes) of bagged ammonium nitrate shall be stored in a building or structure not equipped with an automatic sprinkler system. Sprinkler systems shall be of the approved type and installed in accordance with § 1910.159.
(ii)( a ) Suitable fire control devices such as small hose or portable fire extinguishers shall be provided throughout the warehouse and in the loading and unloading areas. Suitable fire control devices shall comply with the requirements of §§ 1910.157 and 1910.158.
( b ) Water supplies and fire hydrants shall be available in accordance with recognized good practices.
(j) Small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and small arms propellants —(1) Scope. This paragraph does not apply to in-process storage and intraplant transportation during manufacture of small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and smokeless propellants.
(2) Small arms ammunition. (i) No quantity limitations are imposed on the storage of small arms ammunition in warehouses, retail stores, and other general occupancy facilities, except those imposed by limitations of storage facilities.
(ii) Small arms ammunition shall be separated from flammable liquids, flammable solids as classified in 49 CFR part 172, and from oxidizing materials, by a fire-resistive wall of 1-hour rating or by a distance of 25 feet.
(iii) Small arms ammunition shall not be stored together with Class A or Class B explosives unless the storage facility is adequate for this latter storage.
(3) Smokeless propellants. (i) All smokeless propellants shall be stored in shipping containers specified in 49 CFR 173.93 for smokeless propellants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Commercial stocks of smokeless propellants over 20 pounds and not more than 100 pounds shall be stored in portable wooden boxes having walls of at least 1 inch nominal thickness.
(iv) Commercial stocks in quantities not to exceed 750 pounds shall be stored in nonportable storage cabinets having wooden walls of at least 1 inch nominal thickness. Not more than 400 pounds shall be permitted in any one cabinet.
(v) Quantities in excess of 750 pounds shall be stored in magazines in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(4) Small arms ammunition primers. (i) Small arms ammunition primers shall not be stored except in the original shipping container in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 173.107 for small arms ammunition primers.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Small arms ammunition primers shall be separated from flammable liquids, flammable solids as classified in 49 CFR part 172, and oxidizing materials by a fire-resistive wall of 1-hour rating or by a distance of 25 feet.
(iv) Not more than 750,000 small arms ammunition primers shall be stored in any one building, except as provided in paragraph (j)(4)(v) of this paragraph. Not more than 100,000 shall be stored in any one pile. Piles shall be at least 15 feet apart.
(v) Quantities of small arms ammunition primers in excess of 750,000 shall be stored in magazines in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(k) Scope. (1) This section applies to the manufacture, keeping, having, storage, sale, transportation, and use of explosives, blasting agents, and pyrotechnics. The section does not apply to the sale and use (public display) of pyrotechnics, commonly known as fireworks, nor the use of explosives in the form prescribed by the official U.S. Pharmacopeia.
(2) The manufacture of explosives as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall also meet the requirements contained in § 1910.119.
(3) The manufacture of pyrotechnics as defined in paragraph (a)(10) of this section shall also meet the requirements contained in § 1910.119.