§ 1910.103 Hydrogen.
( 8 ) More than one system of 3,000 CF or less may be installed in the same room, provided the systems are separated by at least 50 feet. Each such system shall meet all of the requirements of this paragraph.
(3) Design consideration at specific locations —(i) Outdoor locations. ( a ) Where protective walls or roofs are provided, they shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
( b ) Where the enclosing sides adjoin each other, the area shall be properly ventilated.
( c ) Electrical equipment within 15 feet shall be in accordance with subpart S of this part.
(ii) Separate buildings. ( a ) Separate buildings shall be built of at least noncombustible construction. Windows and doors shall be located so as to be readily accessible in case of emergency. Windows shall be of glass or plastic in metal frames.
( b ) Adequate ventilation to the outdoors shall be provided. Inlet openings shall be located near the floor in exterior walls only. Outlet openings shall be located at the high point of the room in exterior walls or roof. Inlet and outlet openings shall each have minimum total area of one (1) square foot per 1,000 cubic feet of room volume. Discharge from outlet openings shall be directed or conducted to a safe location.
( c ) Explosion venting shall be provided in exterior walls or roof only. The venting area shall be equal to not less than 1 square foot per 30 cubic feet of room volume and may consist of any one or any combination of the following: Walls of light, noncombustible material, preferably single thickness, single strength glass; lightly fastened hatch covers; lightly fastened swinging doors in exterior walls opening outward; lightly fastened walls or roof designed to relieve at a maximum pressure of 25 pounds per square foot.
( d ) There shall be no sources of ignition from open flames, electrical equipment, or heating equipment.
( e ) Electrical equipment shall be in accordance with subpart S of this part for Class I, Division 2 locations.
( f ) Heating, if provided, shall be by steam, hot water, or other indirect means.
