§ 1910.262 Textiles.
(dd) Printing machine (roller type) —(1) Nip guards. All nip guards shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.
(2) Crown wheel and roller gear nip protection. The engraved roller gears and the large crown wheel shall be provided with a protective disc which will enclose the nips of the in-running gears. Individual discs for each nip will be acceptable.
(ee) Calenders. The nip at the in-running side of the rolls shall be provided with a guard extending across the entire length of the nip and arranged to prevent the fingers of the workers from being pulled in between the rolls or between the guard and the rolls, and constructed so that the cloth can be fed into the rolls safely.
(ff) Rotary staple cutters. A guard shall be installed completely enclosing the cutters to prevent the hands of the operator from reaching the cutting zone.
(gg) [Reserved]
(hh) Hand bailing machine. An angle-iron-handle stop guard shall be installed at the right angle to the frame of the machine. The stop guard shall be so designed and so located that it will prevent the handle from traveling beyond the vertical position should the handle slip from the operator's hand when the pawl has been released from the teeth of the takeup gear.
(ii) Roll bench. Cleats shall be installed on the ends of roll benches.
(jj) Cuttle or swing folder (overhead type). The bottom of the overhead folders shall be located not less than 7 feet from the floor or working surface.
(kk) Color-mixing room. Floors in color-mixing rooms shall be constructed to drain easily.
(ll) Open tanks and vats for mixing and storage of hot or corrosive liquids — Shutoff valves. Boiling tanks, caustic tanks, and hot liquid containers, so located that the operator cannot see the contents from the floor or working area, shall have emergency shutoff valves controlled from a point not subject to danger of splash. Valves shall conform to the ASME Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII, Unfired Pressure Vessels, 1968.
