§ 1910.155 Scope, application and definitions applicable to this subpart.
(31) Maintenance means the performance of services on fire protection equipment and systems to assure that they will perform as expected in the event of a fire. Maintenance differs from inspection in that maintenance requires the checking of internal fittings, devices and agent supplies.
(32) Multipurpose dry chemical means a dry chemical which is approved for use on Class A, Class B and Class C fires.
(33) Outer shell is the exterior layer of material on the fire coat and protective trousers which forms the outermost barrier between the fire fighter and the environment. It is attached to the vapor barrier and liner and is usually constructed with a storm flap, suitable closures, and pockets.
(34) Positive-pressure breathing apparatus means self-contained breathing apparatus in which the pressure in the breathing zone is positive in relation to the immediate environment during inhalation and exhalation.
(35) Pre-discharge employee alarm means an alarm which will sound at a set time prior to actual discharge of an extinguishing system so that employees may evacuate the discharge area prior to system discharge.
(36) Quick disconnect valve means a device which starts the flow of air by inserting of the hose (which leads from the facepiece) into the regulator of self-contained breathing apparatus, and stops the flow of air by disconnection of the hose from the regulator.
(37) Sprinkler alarm means an approved device installed so that any waterflow from a sprinkler system equal to or greater than that from single automatic sprinkler will result in an audible alarm signal on the premises.
(38) Sprinkler system means a system of piping designed in accordance with fire protection engineering standards and installed to control or extinguish fires. The system includes an adequate and reliable water supply, and a network of specially sized piping and sprinklers which are interconnected. The system also includes a control valve and a device for actuating an alarm when the system is in operation.
(39) Standpipe systems. (i) Class I standpipe system means a 2 1/2 ″ (6.3 cm) hose connection for use by fire departments and those trained in handling heavy fire streams.
(ii) Class II standpipe system means a 1 1/2 ″ (3.8 cm) hose system which provides a means for the control or extinguishment of incipient stage fires.
