§ 1910.252 General requirements.
(A) Based on fire potentials of plant facilities, establish areas for cutting and welding, and establish procedures for cutting and welding, in other areas.
(B) Designate an individual responsible for authorizing cutting and welding operations in areas not specifically designed for such processes.
(C) Insist that cutters or welders and their supervisors are suitably trained in the safe operation of their equipment and the safe use of the process.
(D) Advise all contractors about flammable materials or hazardous conditions of which they may not be aware.
(xiv) Supervisor. The Supervisor:
(A) Shall be responsible for the safe handling of the cutting or welding equipment and the safe use of the cutting or welding process.
(B) Shall determine the combustible materials and hazardous areas present or likely to be present in the work location.
(C) Shall protect combustibles from ignition by the following:
( 1 ) Have the work moved to a location free from dangerous combustibles.
( 2 ) If the work cannot be moved, have the combustibles moved to a safe distance from the work or have the combustibles properly shielded against ignition.
( 3 ) See that cutting and welding are so scheduled that plant operations that might expose combustibles to ignition are not started during cutting or welding.
(D) Shall secure authorization for the cutting or welding operations from the designated management representative.
(E) Shall determine that the cutter or welder secures his approval that conditions are safe before going ahead.
(F) Shall determine that fire protection and extinguishing equipment are properly located at the site.
(G) Where fire watches are required, he shall see that they are available at the site.
(xv) Fire prevention precautions. Cutting or welding shall be permitted only in areas that are or have been made fire safe. When work cannot be moved practically, as in most construction work, the area shall be made safe by removing combustibles or protecting combustibles from ignition sources.
