§ 1910.1024 Beryllium.
(3) Showers. (i) The employer must provide showers in accordance with the Sanitation standard (§ 1910.141) where:
(A) Airborne exposure exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the TWA PEL or STEL; and
(B) Employee's hair or body parts other than hands, face, and neck can reasonably be expected to become contaminated with beryllium.
(ii) Employers required to provide showers under paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this standard must ensure that each employee showers at the end of the work shift or work activity if:
(A) The employee reasonably could have had airborne exposure above the TWA PEL or STEL; and
(B) The employee's hair or body parts other than hands, face, and neck could reasonably have become contaminated with beryllium.
(4) Eating and drinking areas. Wherever the employer allows employees to consume food or beverages at a worksite where beryllium is present, the employer must ensure that:
(i) Beryllium-contaminated surfaces in eating and drinking areas are as free as practicable of beryllium;
(ii) No employees enter any eating or drinking area with beryllium-contaminated personal protective clothing or equipment unless, prior to entry, it is cleaned, as necessary, to be as free as practicable of beryllium by methods that do not disperse beryllium into the air or onto an employee's body; and
(iii) Eating and drinking facilities provided by the employer are in accordance with the Sanitation standard (§ 1910.141).
(5) Prohibited activities. The employer must ensure that no employees eat, drink, smoke, chew tobacco or gum, or apply cosmetics in regulated areas.
(j) Housekeeping —(1) General. (i) The employer must maintain all surfaces in beryllium work areas and regulated areas as free as practicable of beryllium and in accordance with the written exposure control plan required under paragraph (f)(1) and the cleaning methods required under paragraph (j)(2) of this standard; and
(ii) The employer must ensure that all spills and emergency releases of beryllium are cleaned up promptly and in accordance with the written exposure control plan required under paragraph (f)(1) and the cleaning methods required under paragraph (j)(2) of this standard.
(2) Cleaning methods.
