§ 1910.218 Forging machines.
(v) Tongs shall be of sufficient length to clear the body of the worker in case of kickback, and shall not have sharp handle ends.
(vi) Oil swabs, or scale removers, or other devices to remove scale shall be provided. These devices shall be long enough to enable a man to reach the full length of the die without placing his hand or arm between the dies.
(vii) Material handling equipment shall be of adequate strength, size, and dimension to handle diesetting operations safely.
(viii) A scale guard of substantial construction shall be provided at the back of every hammer, so arranged as to stop flying scale.
(ix) A scale guard of substantial construction shall be provided at the back of every press, so arranged as to stop flying scale.
(b) Hammers, general —(1) Keys. Die keys and shims shall be made from a grade of material that will not unduly crack or splinter.
(2) Foot operated devices. All foot operated devices (i.e., treadles, pedals, bars, valves, and switches) shall be substantially and effectively protected from unintended operation.
(c) Presses. All manually operated valves and switches shall be clearly identified and readily accessible.
(d) Power-driven hammers —(1) Safety cylinder head. Every steam or airhammer shall have a safety cylinder head to act as a cushion if the rod should break or pullout of the ram.
(2) Shutoff valve. Steam hammers shall be provided with a quick closing emergency valve in the admission pipeline at a convenient location. This valve shall be closed and locked in the off position while the hammer is being adjusted, repaired, or serviced, or when the dies are being changed.
(3) Cylinder draining. Steam hammers shall be provided with a means of cylinder draining, such as a self-draining arrangement or a quick-acting drain cock.
(4) Pressure pipes. Steam or air piping shall conform to the specifications of American National Standard ANSI B31.1.0-1967, Power Piping with Addenda issued before April 28, 1971, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(e) Gravity hammers —(1) Air-lift hammers. (i) Air-lift hammers shall have a safety cylinder head as required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
