§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that each employee who is exposed to hazards from flames or electric arcs does not wear clothing that could melt onto his or her skin or that could ignite and continue to burn when exposed to flames or the heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section.
Note: Note to paragraph ( l )(8)( iii ) of this section: This paragraph prohibits clothing made from acetate, nylon, polyester, rayon and polypropylene, either alone or in blends, unless the employer demonstrates that the fabric has been treated to withstand the conditions that may be encountered by the employee or that the employee wears the clothing in such a manner as to eliminate the hazard involved.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that the outer layer of clothing worn by an employee, except for clothing not required to be arc rated under paragraphs (l)(8)(v)(A) through (l)(8)(v)(E) of this section, is flame resistant under any of the following conditions:
(A) The employee is exposed to contact with energized circuit parts operating at more than 600 volts,
(B) An electric arc could ignite flammable material in the work area that, in turn, could ignite the employee's clothing,
(C) Molten metal or electric arcs from faulted conductors in the work area could ignite the employee's clothing, or
Note: Note to paragraph ( l )(8)( iv )(C): This paragraph does not apply to conductors that are capable of carrying, without failure, the maximum available fault current for the time the circuit protective devices take to interrupt the fault.
(D) The incident heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section exceeds 2.0 cal/cm 2 .
(v) The employer shall ensure that each employee exposed to hazards from electric arcs wears protective clothing and other protective equipment with an arc rating greater than or equal to the heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section whenever that estimate exceeds 2.0 cal/cm 2 . This protective equipment shall cover the employee's entire body, except as follows:
(A) Arc-rated protection is not necessary for the employee's hands when the employee is wearing rubber insulating gloves with protectors or, if the estimated incident energy is no more than 14 cal/cm 2 , heavy-duty leather work gloves with a weight of at least 407 gm/m 2 (12 oz/yd 2 ),
(B) Arc-rated protection is not necessary for the employee's feet when the employee is wearing heavy-duty work shoes or boots,
(C) Arc-rated protection is not necessary for the employee's head when the employee is wearing head protection meeting § 1910.135 if the estimated incident energy is less than 9 cal/cm 2 for exposures involving single-phase arcs in open air or 5 cal/cm 2 for other exposures,
(D) The protection for the employee's head may consist of head protection meeting § 1910.135 and a faceshield with a minimum arc rating of 8 cal/cm 2 if the estimated incident-energy exposure is less than 13 cal/cm 2 for exposures involving single-phase arcs in open air or 9 cal/cm 2 for other exposures, and
(E) For exposures involving single-phase arcs in open air, the arc rating for the employee's head and face protection may be 4 cal/cm 2 less than the estimated incident energy.
Note: Note to paragraph ( l )(8): See appendix E to this section for further information on the selection of appropriate protection.
(vi) Dates. (A) The obligation in paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section for the employer to make reasonable estimates of incident energy commences January 1, 2015.
(B) The obligation in paragraph (l)(8)(iv)(D) of this section for the employer to ensure that the outer layer of clothing worn by an employee is flame-resistant when the estimated incident heat energy exceeds 2.0 cal/cm 2 commences April 1, 2015.
(C) The obligation in paragraph (l)(8)(v) of this section for the employer to ensure that each employee exposed to hazards from electric arcs wears the required arc-rated protective equipment commences April 1, 2015.
(9) Fuse handling. When an employee must install or remove fuses with one or both terminals energized at more than 300 volts, or with exposed parts energized at more than 50 volts, the employer shall ensure that the employee uses tools or gloves rated for the voltage. When an employee installs or removes expulsion-type fuses with one or both terminals energized at more than 300 volts, the employer shall ensure that the employee wears eye protection meeting the requirements of subpart I of this part, uses a tool rated for the voltage, and is clear of the exhaust path of the fuse barrel.
(10) Covered (noninsulated) conductors. The requirements of this section that pertain to the hazards of exposed live parts also apply when an employee performs work in proximity to covered (noninsulated) wires.
(11) Non-current-carrying metal parts. Non-current-carrying metal parts of equipment or devices, such as transformer cases and circuit-breaker housings, shall be treated as energized at the highest voltage to which these parts are exposed, unless the employer inspects the installation and determines that these parts are grounded before employees begin performing the work.
(12) Opening and closing circuits under load. (i) The employer shall ensure that devices used by employees to open circuits under load conditions are designed to interrupt the current involved.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that devices used by employees to close circuits under load conditions are designed to safely carry the current involved.

Table R-3—AC Live-Line Work Minimum Approach Distance
-----------------------------------------------------
For phase-to-phase system voltages of 50 V to 300 V: 1
MAD = avoid contact
For phase-to-phase system voltages of 301 V to 5 kV: 1
MAD = M + D, where
D = 0.02 m the electrical component of the minimum approach distance.
M = 0.31 m for voltages up to 750 V and 0.61 m otherwise the inadvertent movement factor.
For phase-to-phase system voltages of 5.1 kV to 72.5 kV: 1 4
MAD = M + AD, where
M = 0.61 m the inadvertent movement factor.
A = the applicable value from Table R-5 the altitude correction factor.
D = the value from Table R-4 corresponding to the voltage and exposure or the value of the electrical component of the minimum approach distance calculated using the method provided in appendix B to this section the electrical component of the minimum approach distance.
For phase-to-phase system voltages of more than 72.5 kV, nominal: 2 4
MAD = 0.3048( C + a ) V L-G TA + M
C = 0.01 for phase-to-ground exposures that the employer can demonstrate consist only of air across the approach distance (gap),
0.01 for phase-to-phase exposures if the employer can demonstrate that no insulated tool spans the gap and that no large conductive object is in the gap, or
0.011 otherwise
V L-G = phase-to-ground rms voltage, in kV
T = maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage; for phase-to-ground exposures, T equals T L-G , the maximum per-unit transient overvoltage, phase-to-ground, determined by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section; for phase-to-phase exposures, T equals 1.35 T L-G + 0.45
A = altitude correction factor from Table R-5
M = 0.31 m, the inadvertent movement factor
a = saturation factor, as follows:

Phase-to-Ground Exposures
V Peak = T L-G V L-G √2 635 kV or less 635.1 to 915 kV 915.1 to 1,050 kV More than 1,050 kV
a 0 ( V Peak -635)/140,000 ( V Peak -645)/135,000 ( V Peak -675)/125,000
Phase-to-Phase Exposures 3
V Peak = (1.35 T L-G + 0.45) V L-G √2 630 kV or less 630.1 to 848 kV 848.1 to 1,131 kV 1,131.1 to 1,485 kV More than 1,485 kV
a 0 ( V Peak -630)/155,000 ( V Peak -633.6)/152,207 ( V Peak -628)/153,846 ( V Peak -350.5)/203,666

Table R-4—Electrical Component of the Minimum Approach Distance at 5.1 to 72.5 kV
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nominal voltage (kV) phase-to-phase Phase-to-ground exposure D (m) Phase-to-phase exposure D (m)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5.1 to 15.0 0.04 0.07
15.1 to 36.0 0.16 0.28
36.1 to 46.0 0.23 0.37
46.1 to 72.5 0.39 0.59

Table R-5—Altitude Correction Factor
------------------------------------
Altitude above sea level (m) A
------------------------------
0 to 900 1.00
901 to 1,200 1.02
1,201 to 1,500 1.05
1,501 to 1,800 1.08
1,801 to 2,100 1.11
2,101 to 2,400 1.14
2,401 to 2,700 1.17
2,701 to 3,000 1.20
3,001 to 3,600 1.25
3,601 to 4,200 1.30
4,201 to 4,800 1.35
4,801 to 5,400 1.39
5,401 to 6,000 1.44

Table R-6—Alternative Minimum Approach Distances for Voltages of 72.5 kV and Less 1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nominal voltage (kV) phase-to-phase Distance Phase-to-ground exposure m ft Phase-to-phase exposure m ft
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0.050 to 0.300 2 Avoid Contact Avoid Contact
0.301 to 0.750 2 0.33 1.09 0.33 1.09
0.751 to 5.0 0.63 2.07 0.63 2.07
5.1 to 15.0 0.65 2.14 0.68 2.24
15.1 to 36.0 0.77 2.53 0.89 2.92
36.1 to 46.0 0.84 2.76 0.98 3.22
46.1 to 72.5 1.00 3.29 1.20 3.94

Table R-7—Alternative Minimum Approach Distances for Voltages of More Than 72.5 kV 1 2 3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Voltage range phase to phase (kV) Phase-to-ground exposure m ft Phase-to-phase exposure m ft
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
72.6 to 121.0 1.13 3.71 1.42 4.66
121.1 to 145.0 1.30 4.27 1.64 5.38
145.1 to 169.0 1.46 4.79 1.94 6.36
169.1 to 242.0 2.01 6.59 3.08 10.10
242.1 to 362.0 3.41 11.19 5.52 18.11
362.1 to 420.0 4.25 13.94 6.81 22.34
420.1 to 550.0 5.07 16.63 8.24 27.03
550.1 to 800.0 6.88 22.57 11.38 37.34

Table R-8—DC Live-Line Minimum Approach Distance with Overvoltage Factor 1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maximum anticipated per-unit transient overvoltage Distance (m) maximum line-to-ground voltage (kV) 250 400 500 600 750
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.5 or less 1.12 1.60 2.06 2.62 3.61
1.6 1.17 1.69 2.24 2.86 3.98
1.7 1.23 1.82 2.42 3.12 4.37
1.8 1.28 1.95 2.62 3.39 4.79

Table R-9—Assumed Maximum Per-Unit Transient Overvoltage
--------------------------------------------------------
Voltage range (kV) Type of current (ac or dc) Assumed maximum per-unit transient overvoltage
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
72.6 to 420.0 ac 3.5
420.1 to 550.0 ac 3.0
550.1 to 800.0 ac 2.5
250 to 750 dc 1.8

(m) Deenergizing lines and equipment for employee protection —(1) Application. Paragraph (m) of this section applies to the deenergizing of transmission and distribution lines and equipment for the purpose of protecting employees. See paragraph (d) of this section for requirements on the control of hazardous energy sources used in the generation of electric energy. Conductors and parts of electric equipment that have been deenergized under procedures other than those required by paragraph (d) or (m) of this section, as applicable, shall be treated as energized.
(2) General. (i) If a system operator is in charge of the lines or equipment and their means of disconnection, the employer shall designate one employee in the crew to be in charge of the clearance and shall comply with all of the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section in the order specified.
(ii) If no system operator is in charge of the lines or equipment and their means of disconnection, the employer shall designate one employee in the crew to be in charge of the clearance and to perform the functions that the system operator would otherwise perform under paragraph (m) of this section. All of the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section apply, in the order specified, except as provided in paragraph (m)(2)(iii) of this section.
(iii) If only one crew will be working on the lines or equipment and if the means of disconnection is accessible and visible to, and under the sole control of, the employee in charge of the clearance, paragraphs (m)(3)(i), (m)(3)(iii), and (m)(3)(v) of this section do not apply. Additionally, the employer does not need to use the tags required by the remaining provisions of paragraph (m)(3) of this section.
(iv) If two or more crews will be working on the same lines or equipment, then:
(A) The crews shall coordinate their activities under paragraph (m) of this section with a single employee in charge of the clearance for all of the crews and follow the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section as if all of the employees formed a single crew, or
(B) Each crew shall independently comply with paragraph (m) of this section and, if there is no system operator in charge of the lines or equipment, shall have separate tags and coordinate deenergizing and reenergizing the lines and equipment with the other crews.
(v) The employer shall render any disconnecting means that are accessible to individuals outside the employer's control (for example, the general public) inoperable while the disconnecting means are open for the purpose of protecting employees.
(3) Deenergizing lines and equipment. (i) The employee that the employer designates pursuant to paragraph (m)(2) of this section as being in charge of the clearance shall make a request of the system operator to deenergize the particular section of line or equipment. The designated employee becomes the employee in charge (as this term is used in paragraph (m)(3) of this section) and is responsible for the clearance.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that all switches, disconnectors, jumpers, taps, and other means through which known sources of electric energy may be supplied to the particular lines and equipment to be deenergized are open. The employer shall render such means inoperable, unless its design does not so permit, and then ensure that such means are tagged to indicate that employees are at work.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that automatically and remotely controlled switches that could cause the opened disconnecting means to close are also tagged at the points of control. The employer shall render the automatic or remote control feature inoperable, unless its design does not so permit.
(iv) The employer need not use the tags mentioned in paragraphs (m)(3)(ii) and (m)(3)(iii) of this section on a network protector for work on the primary feeder for the network protector's associated network transformer when the employer can demonstrate all of the following conditions:
(A) Every network protector is maintained so that it will immediately trip open if closed when a primary conductor is deenergized;
(B) Employees cannot manually place any network protector in a closed position without the use of tools, and any manual override position is blocked, locked, or otherwise disabled; and
(C) The employer has procedures for manually overriding any network protector that incorporate provisions for determining, before anyone places a network protector in a closed position, that: The line connected to the network protector is not deenergized for the protection of any employee working on the line; and (if the line connected to the network protector is not deenergized for the protection of any employee working on the line) the primary conductors for the network protector are energized.
(v) Tags shall prohibit operation of the disconnecting means and shall indicate that employees are at work.
(vi) After the applicable requirements in paragraphs (m)(3)(i) through (m)(3)(v) of this section have been followed and the system operator gives a clearance to the employee in charge, the employer shall ensure that the lines and equipment are deenergized by testing the lines and equipment to be worked with a device designed to detect voltage.
(vii) The employer shall ensure the installation of protective grounds as required by paragraph (n) of this section.
(viii) After the applicable requirements of paragraphs (m)(3)(i) through (m)(3)(vii) of this section have been followed, the lines and equipment involved may be considered deenergized.
(ix) To transfer the clearance, the employee in charge (or the employee's supervisor if the employee in charge must leave the worksite due to illness or other emergency) shall inform the system operator and employees in the crew; and the new employee in charge shall be responsible for the clearance.
(x) To release a clearance, the employee in charge shall:
(A) Notify each employee under that clearance of the pending release of the clearance;
(B) Ensure that all employees under that clearance are clear of the lines and equipment;
(C) Ensure that all protective grounds protecting employees under that clearance have been removed; and
(D) Report this information to the system operator and then release the clearance.
(xi) Only the employee in charge who requested the clearance may release the clearance, unless the employer transfers responsibility under paragraph (m)(3)(ix) of this section.
(xii) No one may remove tags without the release of the associated clearance as specified under paragraphs (m)(3)(x) and (m)(3)(xi) of this section.
(xiii) The employer shall ensure that no one initiates action to reenergize the lines or equipment at a point of disconnection until all protective grounds have been removed, all crews working on the lines or equipment release their clearances, all employees are clear of the lines and equipment, and all protective tags are removed from that point of disconnection.
(n) Grounding for the protection of employees —(1) Application. Paragraph (n) of this section applies to grounding of generation, transmission, and distribution lines and equipment for the purpose of protecting employees. Paragraph (n)(4) of this section also applies to protective grounding of other equipment as required elsewhere in this section.
Note: Note to paragraph ( n )(1): This paragraph covers grounding of generation, transmission, and distribution lines and equipment when this section requires protective grounding and whenever the employer chooses to ground such lines and equipment for the protection of employees.
(2) General. For any employee to work transmission and distribution lines or equipment as deenergized, the employer shall ensure that the lines or equipment are deenergized under the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section and shall ensure proper grounding of the lines or equipment as specified in paragraphs (n)(3) through (n)(8) of this section. However, if the employer can demonstrate that installation of a ground is impracticable or that the conditions resulting from the installation of a ground would present greater hazards to employees than working without grounds, the lines and equipment may be treated as deenergized provided that the employer establishes that all of the following conditions apply:
(i) The employer ensures that the lines and equipment are deenergized under the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section.
(ii) There is no possibility of contact with another energized source.
(iii) The hazard of induced voltage is not present.
(3) Equipotential zone. Temporary protective grounds shall be placed at such locations and arranged in such a manner that the employer can demonstrate will prevent each employee from being exposed to hazardous differences in electric potential.
Note: Note to paragraph ( n )(3): Appendix C to this section contains guidelines for establishing the equipotential zone required by this paragraph. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration will deem grounding practices meeting these guidelines as complying with paragraph (n)(3) of this section.
(4) Protective grounding equipment. (i) Protective grounding equipment shall be capable of conducting the maximum fault current that could flow at the point of grounding for the time necessary to clear the fault.
(ii) Protective grounding equipment shall have an ampacity greater than or equal to that of No. 2 AWG copper.
(iii) Protective grounds shall have an impedance low enough so that they do not delay the operation of protective devices in case of accidental energizing of the lines or equipment.
Note: Note to paragraph ( n )(4): American Society for Testing and Materials Standard Specifications for Temporary Protective Grounds to Be Used on De-Energized Electric Power Lines and Equipment, ASTM F855-09, contains guidelines for protective grounding equipment. The Institute of Electrical Engineers Guide for Protective Grounding of Power Lines, IEEE Std 1048-2003, contains guidelines for selecting and installing protective grounding equipment.
(5) Testing. The employer shall ensure that, unless a previously installed ground is present, employees test lines and equipment and verify the absence of nominal voltage before employees install any ground on those lines or that equipment.
(6) Connecting and removing grounds. (i) The employer shall ensure that, when an employee attaches a ground to a line or to equipment, the employee attaches the ground-end connection first and then attaches the other end by means of a live-line tool. For lines or equipment operating at 600 volts or less, the employer may permit the employee to use insulating equipment other than a live-line tool if the employer ensures that the line or equipment is not energized at the time the ground is connected or if the employer can demonstrate that each employee is protected from hazards that may develop if the line or equipment is energized.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that, when an employee removes a ground, the employee removes the grounding device from the line or equipment using a live-line tool before he or she removes the ground-end connection. For lines or equipment operating at 600 volts or less, the employer may permit the employee to use insulating equipment other than a live-line tool if the employer ensures that the line or equipment is not energized at the time the ground is disconnected or if the employer can demonstrate that each employee is protected from hazards that may develop if the line or equipment is energized.
(7) Additional precautions. The employer shall ensure that, when an employee performs work on a cable at a location remote from the cable terminal, the cable is not grounded at the cable terminal if there is a possibility of hazardous transfer of potential should a fault occur.
(8) Removal of grounds for test. The employer may permit employees to remove grounds temporarily during tests. During the test procedure, the employer shall ensure that each employee uses insulating equipment, shall isolate each employee from any hazards involved, and shall implement any additional measures necessary to protect each exposed employee in case the previously grounded lines and equipment become energized.
(o) Testing and test facilities —(1) Application. Paragraph (o) of this section provides for safe work practices for high-voltage and high-power testing performed in laboratories, shops, and substations, and in the field and on electric transmission and distribution lines and equipment. It applies only to testing involving interim measurements using high voltage, high power, or combinations of high voltage and high power, and not to testing involving continuous measurements as in routine metering, relaying, and normal line work.
Note: Note to paragraph ( o )(1): OSHA considers routine inspection and maintenance measurements made by qualified employees to be routine line work not included in the scope of paragraph (o) of this section, provided that the hazards related to the use of intrinsic high-voltage or high-power sources require only the normal precautions associated with routine work specified in the other paragraphs of this section. Two typical examples of such excluded test work procedures are "phasing-out" testing and testing for a "no-voltage" condition.
(2) General requirements. (i) The employer shall establish and enforce work practices for the protection of each worker from the hazards of high-voltage or high-power testing at all test areas, temporary and permanent. Such work practices shall include, as a minimum, test area safeguarding, grounding, the safe use of measuring and control circuits, and a means providing for periodic safety checks of field test areas.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that each employee, upon initial assignment to the test area, receives training in safe work practices, with retraining provided as required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3) Safeguarding of test areas. (i) The employer shall provide safeguarding within test areas to control access to test equipment or to apparatus under test that could become energized as part of the testing by either direct or inductive coupling and to prevent accidental employee contact with energized parts.
(ii) The employer shall guard permanent test areas with walls, fences, or other barriers designed to keep employees out of the test areas.
(iii) In field testing, or at a temporary test site not guarded by permanent fences and gates, the employer shall ensure the use of one of the following means to prevent employees without authorization from entering:
(A) Distinctively colored safety tape supported approximately waist high with safety signs attached to it,
(B) A barrier or barricade that limits access to the test area to a degree equivalent, physically and visually, to the barricade specified in paragraph (o)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, or
(C) One or more test observers stationed so that they can monitor the entire area.
(iv) The employer shall ensure the removal of the safeguards required by paragraph (o)(3)(iii) of this section when employees no longer need the protection afforded by the safeguards.
(4) Grounding practices. (i) The employer shall establish and implement safe grounding practices for the test facility.
(A) The employer shall maintain at ground potential all conductive parts accessible to the test operator while the equipment is operating at high voltage.
(B) Wherever ungrounded terminals of test equipment or apparatus under test may be present, they shall be treated as energized until tests demonstrate that they are deenergized.
(ii) The employer shall ensure either that visible grounds are applied automatically, or that employees using properly insulated tools manually apply visible grounds, to the high-voltage circuits after they are deenergized and before any employee performs work on the circuit or on the item or apparatus under test. Common ground connections shall be solidly connected to the test equipment and the apparatus under test.
(iii) In high-power testing, the employer shall provide an isolated ground-return conductor system designed to prevent the intentional passage of current, with its attendant voltage rise, from occurring in the ground grid or in the earth. However, the employer need not provide an isolated ground-return conductor if the employer can demonstrate that both of the following conditions exist:
(A) The employer cannot provide an isolated ground-return conductor due to the distance of the test site from the electric energy source, and
(B) The employer protects employees from any hazardous step and touch potentials that may develop during the test.
Note: Note to paragraph ( o )(4)( iii )(B): See appendix C to this section for information on measures that employers can take to protect employees from hazardous step and touch potentials.
(iv) For tests in which using the equipment grounding conductor in the equipment power cord to ground the test equipment would result in greater hazards to test personnel or prevent the taking of satisfactory measurements, the employer may use a ground clearly indicated in the test set-up if the employer can demonstrate that this ground affords protection for employees equivalent to the protection afforded by an equipment grounding conductor in the power supply cord.
(v) The employer shall ensure that, when any employee enters the test area after equipment is deenergized, a ground is placed on the high-voltage terminal and any other exposed terminals.
(A) Before any employee applies a direct ground, the employer shall discharge high capacitance equipment through a resistor rated for the available energy.
(B) A direct ground shall be applied to the exposed terminals after the stored energy drops to a level at which it is safe to do so.
(vi) If the employer uses a test trailer or test vehicle in field testing, its chassis shall be grounded. The employer shall protect each employee against hazardous touch potentials with respect to the vehicle, instrument panels, and other conductive parts accessible to employees with bonding, insulation, or isolation.
(5) Control and measuring circuits. (i) The employer may not run control wiring, meter connections, test leads, or cables from a test area unless contained in a grounded metallic sheath and terminated in a grounded metallic enclosure or unless the employer takes other precautions that it can demonstrate will provide employees with equivalent safety.
(ii) The employer shall isolate meters and other instruments with accessible terminals or parts from test personnel to protect against hazards that could arise should such terminals and parts become energized during testing. If the employer provides this isolation by locating test equipment in metal compartments with viewing windows, the employer shall provide interlocks to interrupt the power supply when someone opens the compartment cover.
(iii) The employer shall protect temporary wiring and its connections against damage, accidental interruptions, and other hazards. To the maximum extent possible, the employer shall keep signal, control, ground, and power cables separate from each other.
(iv) If any employee will be present in the test area during testing, a test observer shall be present. The test observer shall be capable of implementing the immediate deenergizing of test circuits for safety purposes.
(6) Safety check. (i) Safety practices governing employee work at temporary or field test areas shall provide, at the beginning of each series of tests, for a routine safety check of such test areas.
(ii) The test operator in charge shall conduct these routine safety checks before each series of tests and shall verify at least the following conditions:
(A) Barriers and safeguards are in workable condition and placed properly to isolate hazardous areas;
(B) System test status signals, if used, are in operable condition;
(C) Clearly marked test-power disconnects are readily available in an emergency;
(D) Ground connections are clearly identifiable;
(E) Personal protective equipment is provided and used as required by Subpart I of this part and by this section; and
(F) Proper separation between signal, ground, and power cables.
(p) Mechanical equipment —(1) General requirements. (i) The critical safety components of mechanical elevating and rotating equipment shall receive a thorough visual inspection before use on each shift.
Note: Note to paragraph ( p )(1)( i ): Critical safety components of mechanical elevating and rotating equipment are components for which failure would result in free fall or free rotation of the boom.
(ii) No motor vehicle or earthmoving or compacting equipment having an obstructed view to the rear may be operated on off-highway jobsites where any employee is exposed to the hazards created by the moving vehicle, unless:
(A) The vehicle has a reverse signal alarm audible above the surrounding noise level, or
(B) The vehicle is backed up only when a designated employee signals that it is safe to do so.
(iii) Rubber-tired self-propelled scrapers, rubber-tired front-end loaders, rubber-tired dozers, wheel-type agricultural and industrial tractors, crawler-type tractors, crawler-type loaders, and motor graders, with or without attachments, shall have rollover protective structures that meet the requirements of Subpart W of Part 1926 of this chapter.
