§ 1910.307 Hazardous (classified) locations.
(iii) All threaded conduit shall be threaded with an NPT (National (American) Standard Pipe Taper) standard conduit cutting die that provides 3/4 -in. taper per foot. The conduit shall be made wrench tight to prevent sparking when fault current flows through the conduit system and to ensure the explosionproof or flameproof integrity of the conduit system where applicable.
(iv) Equipment provided with threaded entries for field wiring connection shall be installed in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(iv)(A) or (g)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.
(A) For equipment provided with threaded entries for NPT threaded conduit or fittings, listed conduit, conduit fittings, or cable fittings shall be used.
(B) For equipment with metric threaded entries, such entries shall be identified as being metric, or listed adaptors to permit connection to conduit of NPT-threaded fittings shall be provided with the equipment. Adapters shall be used for connection to conduit or NPT-threaded fittings.
(3) Protection techniques. One or more of the following protection techniques shall be used for electric and electronic equipment in hazardous (classified) locations classified under the zone classification system.
(i) Flameproof "d"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
(ii) Purged and pressurized—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations for which it is approved.
(iii) Intrinsic safety—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 0 or Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
(iv) Type of protection "n"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 2 locations for which it is approved. Type of protection "n" is further subdivided into nA, nC, and nR.
(v) Oil Immersion "o"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
(vi) Increased safety "e"—This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
