§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(C) Information about the design and operation of the host employer's installation that the contract employer needs to make the assessments required by this section; and Note: Note to paragraph ( a )(3)( i )(C): This paragraph requires the host employer to obtain information about the design and operation of its installation that contract employers need to make required assessments if it does not have this information in existing records. (D) Any other information about the design and operation of the host employer's installation that is known by the host employer, that the contract employer requests, and that is related to the protection of the contract employer's employees. Note: Note to paragraph ( a )(3)( i )(D): For the purposes of this paragraph, the host employer need only provide information to contract employers that the host employer can obtain from its existing records through the exercise of reasonable diligence. This paragraph does not require the host employer to make inspections of worksite conditions to obtain this information. (ii) Contract employers shall comply with the following requirements: (A) The contract employer shall ensure that each of its employees is instructed in the hazardous conditions relevant to the employee's work that the contract employer is aware of as a result of information communicated to the contract employer by the host employer under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. (B) Before work begins, the contract employer shall advise the host employer of any unique hazardous conditions presented by the contract employer's work. (C) The contract employer shall advise the host employer of any unanticipated hazardous conditions found during the contract employer's work that the host employer did not mention under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. The contract employer shall provide this information to the host employer within 2 working days after discovering the hazardous condition. (iii) The contract employer and the host employer shall coordinate their work rules and procedures so that each employee of the contract employer and the host employer is protected as required by this section. (4) Existing characteristics and conditions. Existing characteristics and conditions of electric lines and equipment that are related to the safety of the work to be performed shall be determined before work on or near the lines or equipment is started. Such characteristics and conditions include, but are not limited to: (i) The nominal voltages of lines and equipment, (ii) The maximum switching-transient voltages, (iii)