§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(x) When permanently installed containers are interconnected, provision shall be made to compensate for expansion, contraction, vibration, and settling of containers, and interconnecting piping. Where flexible connections are used, they shall be of an approved type and shall be designed for a bursting pressure of not less than five times the vapor pressure of the product at 100 degrees F. The use of nonmetallic hose is prohibited for permanently interconnecting such containers.
(xi) Container assemblies listed for interchangeable installation above ground or under ground shall conform to the requirements for aboveground installations with respect to safety relief capacity and filling density. For installation above ground all other requirements for aboveground installations shall apply. For installation under ground all other requirements for underground installations shall apply.
(8) Protection of container accessories. (i) Valves, regulating, gaging, and other container accessory equipment shall be protected against tampering and physical damage. Such accessories shall also be so protected during the transit of containers intended for installation underground.
(ii) On underground or combination aboveground-underground containers, the service valve handwheel, the terminal for connecting the hose, and the opening through which there can be a flow from safety relief valves shall be at least 4 inches above the container and this opening shall be located in the dome or housing. Underground systems shall be so installed that all the above openings, including the regulator vent, are located above the normal maximum water table.
(iii) All connections to underground containers shall be located within a substantial dome, housing, or manhole and with access thereto protected by a substantial cover.
(9) Drips for condensed gas. Where vaporized gas on the low-pressure side of the system may condense to a liquid at normal operating temperatures and pressures, suitable means shall be provided for revaporization of the condensate.
(10) Damage from vehicles. When damage to LP-Gas systems from vehicular traffic is a possibility, precautions against such damage shall be taken.
(11) Drains. No drains or blowoff lines shall be directed into or in proximity to sewer systems used for other purposes.
(12) General provisions applicable to systems in industrial plants (of 2,000 gallons water capacity and more) and to bulk filling plants. (i) When standard watch service is provided, it shall be extended to the LP-Gas installation and personnel properly trained.
