§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(viii) Only the employee making leading wire connections in electrical firing shall be allowed to fire the shot. Leading wires shall remain shorted and not be connected to the blasting machine or other source of current until the charge is to be fired.
(5) Warning required. Before a blast is fired, the employer shall require that a loud warning signal be given by the person in charge, who has made certain that all surplus explosives are in a safe place, all persons and vehicles are at a safe distance or under sufficient cover, and that an adequate warning has been given.
(f) Explosives at piers, railway stations, and cars or vessels not otherwise specified in this standard —(1) Railway cars. Except in an emergency and with permission of the local authority, no person shall have or keep explosives in a railway car unless said car and contents and methods of loading are in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation Regulations for the Transportation of Explosives, 49 CFR chapter I.
(2) Packing and marking. No person shall deliver any explosive to any carrier unless such explosive conforms in all respects, including marking and packing, to the U.S. Department of Transportation Regulations for the Transportation of Explosives.
(3) Marking cars. Every railway car containing explosives which has reached its designation, or is stopped in transit so as no longer to be in interstate commerce, shall have attached to both sides and ends of the car, cards with the words "Explosives—Handle Carefully—Keep Fire Away" in red letters at least 1 1/2 inches high on a white background.
(4) Storage. Any explosives at a railway facility, truck terminal, pier, wharf harbor facility, or airport terminal whether for delivery to a consignee, or forwarded to some other destination shall be kept in a safe place, isolated as far as practicable and in such manner that they can be easily and quickly removed.
(5) Hours of transfer. Explosives shall not be delivered to or received from any railway station, truck terminal, pier, wharf, harbor facility, or airport terminal between the hours of sunset and sunrise.
(g) Blasting agents —(1) General. Unless otherwise set forth in this paragraph, blasting agents, excluding water gels, shall be transported, stored, and used in the same manner as explosives. Water gels are covered in paragraph (h) of this section.
(2) Fixed location mixing. (i) [Reserved]
