§ 1910.243 Guarding of portable powered tools.
(iv) All positions of the operating controls shall be clearly identified.
(v) The words, "Caution. Be sure the operating control(s) is in neutral before starting the engine," or similar wording shall be clearly visible at an engine starting control point on self-propelled mowers.
(2) Walk-behind and riding rotary mowers. (i) The mower blade shall be enclosed except on the bottom and the enclosure shall extend to or below the lowest cutting point of the blade in the lowest blade position.
(ii) Guards which must be removed to install a catcher assembly shall comply with the following:
( a ) Warning instructions shall be affixed to the mower near the opening stating that the mower shall not be used without either the catcher assembly or the guard in place.
( b ) The catcher assembly or the guard shall be shipped and sold as part of the mower.
( c ) The instruction manual shall state that the mower shall not be used without either the catcher assembly or the guard in place.
( d ) The catcher assembly, when properly and completely installed, shall not create a condition which violates the limits given for the guarded opening.
(iii) Openings in the blade enclosure, intended for the discharge of grass, shall be limited to a maximum vertical angle of the opening of 30 degrees . Measurements shall be taken from the lowest blade position.
(iv) The total effective opening area of the grass discharge opening(s) shall not exceed 1,000 square degrees on units having a width of cut less than 27 1/2 inches, or 2,000 square degrees on units having a width of cut 27 1/2 inches or over.
(v) The word "Caution." or stronger wording, shall be placed on the mower at or near each discharge opening.
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Blade(s) shall stop rotating from the manufacturer's specified maximum speed within 15 seconds after declutching, or shutting off power.
(viii) In a multipiece blade, the means of fastening the cutting members to the body of the blade or disc shall be so designed that they will not become worn to a hazardous condition before the cutting members themselves are worn beyond use.
(ix) The maximum tip speed of any blade shall be 19,000 feet per minute.
