§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(iii) Any container may be installed with nonfireproofed ferrous metal supports if mounted on concrete pads or footings, and if the distance from the outside bottom of the container to the ground does not exceed 5 feet, provided the container is in an isolated location. (iv) Containers may be partially buried providing the following requirements are met: ( a ) The portion of the container below the surface and for a vertical distance not less than 3 inches above the surface of the ground is protected to resist corrosion, and the container is protected against settling and corrosion as required for fully buried containers. ( b ) Spacing requirements shall be as specified for underground tanks in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section. ( c ) Relief valve capacity shall be as required for aboveground containers. ( d ) Container is located so as not to be subject to vehicular damage, or is adequately protected against such damage. ( e ) Filling densities shall be as required for above-ground containers. (v) Containers buried underground shall be placed so that the top of the container is not less than 6 inches below grade. Where an underground container might be subject to abrasive action or physical damage due to vehicular traffic or other causes, then it shall be: ( a ) Placed not less than 2 feet below grade, or ( b ) Otherwise protected against such physical damage. It will not be necessary to cover the portion of the container to which manhole and other connections are affixed; however, where necessary, protection shall be provided against vehicular damage. When necessary to prevent floating, containers shall be securely anchored or weighted. (vi)( a ) Containers shall be given a protective coating before being placed under ground. This coating shall be equivalent to hot-dip galvanizing or to two coatings of red lead followed by a heavy coating of coal tar or asphalt. In lowering the container into place, care shall be exercised to prevent damage to the coating. Any damage to the coating shall be repaired before backfilling. ( b ) Containers shall be set on a firm foundation (firm earth may be used) and surrounded with earth or sand firmly tamped in place. (vii) Containers with foundations attached (portable or semiportable containers with suitable steel "runners" or "skids" and popularly known in the industry as "skid tanks") shall be designed, installed, and used in accordance with these rules subject