§ 1910.155 Scope, application and definitions applicable to this subpart.
(11) Class D fire means a fire involving combustible metals such as magnesium, titanium, zirconium, sodium, lithium and potassium.
(12) Dry chemical means an extinguishing agent composed of very small particles of chemicals such as, but not limited to, sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, urea-based potassium bicarbonate, potassium chloride, or monoammonium phosphate supplemented by special treatment to provide resistance to packing and moisture absorption (caking) as well as to provide proper flow capabilities. Dry chemical does not include dry powders.
(13) Dry powder means a compound used to extinguish or control Class D fires.
(14) Education means the process of imparting knowledge or skill through systematic instruction. It does not require formal classroom instruction.
(15) Enclosed structure means a structure with a roof or ceiling and at least two walls which may present fire hazards to employees, such as accumulations of smoke, toxic gases and heat, similar to those found in buildings.
(16) Extinguisher classification means the letter classification given an extinguisher to designate the class or classes of fire on which an extinguisher will be effective.
(17) Extinguisher rating means the numerical rating given to an extinguisher which indicates the extinguishing potential of the unit based on standardized tests developed by Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc.
(18) Fire brigade (private fire department, industrial fire department) means an organized group of employees who are knowledgeable, trained, and skilled in at least basic fire fighting operations.
(19) Fixed extinguishing system means a permanently installed system that either extinguishes or controls a fire at the location of the system.
(20) Flame resistance is the property of materials, or combinations of component materials, to retard ignition and restrict the spread of flame.
(21) Foam means a stable aggregation of small bubbles which flow freely over a burning liquid surface and form a coherent blanket which seals combustible vapors and thereby extinguishes the fire.
(22) Gaseous agent is a fire extinguishing agent which is in the gaseous state at normal room temperature and pressure. It has low viscosity, can expand or contract with changes in pressure and temperature, and has the ability to diffuse readily and to distribute itself uniformly throughout an enclosure.
