§ 1910.141 Sanitation.
(ii) [Reserved]
(d) Washing facilities —(1) General. Washing facilities shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
(2) Lavatories. (i) Lavatories shall be made available in all places of employment. The requirements of this subdivision do not apply to mobile crews or to normally unattended work locations if employees working at these locations have transportation readily available to nearby washing facilities which meet the other requirements of this paragraph.
(ii) Each lavatory shall be provided with hot and cold running water, or tepid running water.
(iii) Hand soap or similar cleansing agents shall be provided.
(iv) Individual hand towels or sections thereof, of cloth or paper, air blowers or clean individual sections of continuous cloth toweling, convenient to the lavatories, shall be provided.
(3) Showers. (i) Whenever showers are required by a particular standard, the showers shall be provided in accordance with paragraphs (d)(3) (ii) through (v) of this section.
(ii) One shower shall be provided for each 10 employees of each sex, or numerical fraction thereof, who are required to shower during the same shift.
(iii) Body soap or other appropriate cleansing agents convenient to the showers shall be provided as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(iv) Showers shall be provided with hot and cold water feeding a common discharge line.
(v) Employees who use showers shall be provided with individual clean towels.
(e) Change rooms. Whenever employees are required by a particular standard to wear protective clothing because of the possibility of contamination with toxic materials, change rooms equipped with storage facilities for street clothes and separate storage facilities for the protective clothing shall be provided.
(f) Clothes drying facilities. Where working clothes are provided by the employer and become wet or are washed between shifts, provision shall be made to insure that such clothing is dry before reuse.
(g) Consumption of food and beverages on the premises —(1) Application. This paragraph shall apply only where employees are permitted to consume food or beverages, or both, on the premises.
(2) Eating and drinking areas. No employee shall be allowed to consume food or beverages in a toilet room nor in any area exposed to a toxic material.
