§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(5) Guards for hoisting ropes. (i) If hoisting ropes run near enough to other parts to make fouling or chafing possible, guards shall be installed to prevent this condition.
(ii) A guard shall be provided to prevent contact between bridge conductors and hoisting ropes if they could come into contact.
(6) Guards for moving parts. (i) Exposed moving parts such as gears, set screws, projecting keys, chains, chain sprockets, and reciprocating components which might constitute a hazard under normal operating conditions shall be guarded.
(ii) Guards shall be securely fastened.
(iii) Each guard shall be capable of supporting without permanent distortion the weight of a 200-pound person unless the guard is located where it is impossible for a person to step on it.
(f) Brakes —(1) Brakes for hoists. (i) Each independent hoisting unit of a crane shall be equipped with at least one self-setting brake, hereafter referred to as a holding brake, applied directly to the motor shaft or some part of the gear train.
(ii) Each independent hoisting unit of a crane, except worm-geared hoists, the angle of whose worm is such as to prevent the load from accelerating in the lowering direction shall, in addition to a holding brake, be equipped with control braking means to prevent overspeeding.
(2) Holding brakes. (i) Holding brakes for hoist motors shall have not less than the following percentage of the full load hoisting torque at the point where the brake is applied.
( a ) 125 percent when used with a control braking means other than mechanical.
( b ) 100 percent when used in conjunction with a mechanical control braking means.
( c ) 100 percent each if two holding brakes are provided.
(ii) Holding brakes on hoists shall have ample thermal capacity for the frequency of operation required by the service.
(iii) Holding brakes on hoists shall be applied automatically when power is removed.
(iv) Where necessary holding brakes shall be provided with adjustment means to compensate for wear.
(v) The wearing surface of all holding-brake drums or discs shall be smooth.
(vi) Each independent hoisting unit of a crane handling hot metal and having power control braking means shall be equipped with at least two holding brakes.
