§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
(ii) The employer shall provide upon request all materials relating to the employee information and training program to the Secretary and the Director.
(l) Communication of hazards —(1) Hazard communication—general. The employer shall include coke oven emissions in the program established to comply with the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200). The employer shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of chemicals and substances associated with coke oven processes and to safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the provisions of HCS and paragraph (k) of this section. The employer shall ensure that at least the following hazard is addressed: Cancer.
(2) Signs. (i) The employer shall post signs in the regulated area bearing the legend:
(ii) In addition, the employer shall post signs in the areas where the permissible exposure limit is exceeded bearing the legend:
(iii) The employer shall ensure that no statement appears on or near any sign required by this paragraph (l) which contradicts or detracts from the effects of the required sign.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that signs required by this paragraph (l)(2) are illuminated and cleaned as necessary so that the legend is readily visible.
(v) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section:
(vi) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section:
(3) Labels. (i) The employer shall ensure that labels of containers of contaminated protective clothing and equipment include the following information:
(ii) Prior to June 1, 2015, employers may include the following information on contaminated protective clothing and equipment in lieu of the labeling requirements in paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section:
(m) Recordkeeping —(1) Exposure measurements. The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of all measurements taken to monitor employee exposure to coke oven emissions required in paragraph (e) of this section.
(i) This record shall include:
( a ) Name and job classification of the employees monitored;
( b ) The date(s), number, duration and results of each of the samples taken, including a description of the sampling procedure used to determine representative employee exposure where applicable;
