§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(vii) A sheave guard shall be provided beneath the head sheave of the boom.
(9) Traffic warning signs or signals. (i) A flagman shall direct the movement of cranes or locomotives being moved across railroad tracks or roads, and at any points where the vision of the operator is restricted. The flagman must always remain in sight of the operator when the crane or locomotive is in motion. The blue flag policy shall be used to mark stationary cars day and night. This policy shall include marking the track in advance of the spotted cars (flag for daytime, light for darkness).
(ii) After cars are spotted for loading or unloading, warning flags or signs shall be placed in the center of the track at least 50 feet away from the cars and a derail set to protect workmen in the car.
(10) Illumination. Artificial illumination shall be provided when loading or unloading is performed after dark, in accordance with American National Standard A11.1—1965 (R—1970).
(11) [Reserved]
(12) Barking devices. When barking drums are employed in the yard, the requirements of paragraph (e)(12) of this section shall apply.
(13) Hand tools. Handles of wood hooks shall be locked to the shank to prevent them from rotating.
(14) Removal of pulpwood. (i) The ends of a woodpile shall be properly sloped and cross-tiered into the pile. Upright poles shall not be used at the ends of woodpiles. To knock down wood from the woodpile, mechanical equipment shall be used to permit employees to keep in the clear of loosened wood.
(ii) If dynamite is used to loosen the pile, only authorized personnel shall be permitted to handle and discharge the explosive. An electric detonator is preferable for firing; if a fuse is used, it shall be an approved safety fuse with a burning rate of not less than 120 seconds per yard and a minimum length of 3 feet, in accordance with Safety in the Handling and Use of Explosives, IME Pamphlet No. 17, July 1960.
(15) Belt conveyors. (i) The sides of the conveyor shall be constructed so that the wood will not fall off.
