§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
(ii) The employer shall provide lavatory facilities in accordance with § 1910.141(d) (1) and (2) of this part.
(5) Prohibition of activities in the regulated area. (i) The employer shall assure that in the regulated area, food or beverages are not present or consumed, smoking products are not present or used, and cosmetics are not applied, except that these activities may be conducted in the lunchrooms, change rooms and showers required under paragraphs (i)(1)-(i)(3) of this section.
(ii) Drinking water may be consumed in the regulated area.
(j) Medical surveillance —(1) General requirements. (i) Each employer shall institute a medical surveillance program for all employees who are employed in a regulated area at least 30 days per year.
(ii) This program shall provide each employee covered under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section with an opportunity for medical examinations in accordance with this paragraph (j).
(iii) The employer shall inform any employee who refuses any required medical examination of the possible health consequences of such refusal and shall obtain a signed statement from the employee indicating that the employee understands the risk involved in the refusal to be examined.
(iv) The employer shall assure that all medical examinations and procedures are performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, and are provided without cost to the employee.
(2) Initial examinations. At the time of initial assignment to a regulated area or upon the institution of the medical surveillance program, the employer shall provide a medical examination for employees covered under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section including at least the following elements:
(i) A work history and medical history which shall include smoking history and the presence and degree of respiratory symptoms, such as breathlessness, cough, sputum production, and wheezing;
(ii) A 14- by 17-inch or other reasonably-sized standard film or digital posterior-anterior chest X-ray;
(iii) Pulmonary function tests including forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume at one second (FEV 1.0) with recording of type of equipment used;
(iv) Weight;
(v) A skin examination;
(vi) Urinalysis for sugar, albumin, and hematuria; and
(vii) A urinary cytology examination.
