§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(x) Excessively worn or damaged tires.
(5) Cranes not in regular use. (i) A crane which has been idle for a period of one month or more, but less than 6 months, shall be given an inspection conforming with requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section and paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section before placing in service.
(ii) A crane which has been idle for a period of six months shall be given a complete inspection conforming with requirements of paragraphs (d) (3) and (4) of this section and paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section before placing in service.
(iii) Standby cranes shall be inspected at least semiannually in accordance with requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section and paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section. Such cranes which are exposed to adverse environment should be inspected more frequently.
(6) Inspection records. Certification records which include the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and the serial number, or other identifier, of the crane which was inspected shall be made monthly on critical items in use such as brakes, crane hooks, and ropes. This certification record shall be kept readily available.
(e) Testing —(1) Operational tests. (i) In addition to prototype tests and quality-control measures, each new production crane shall be tested by the manufacturer to the extent necessary to insure compliance with the operational requirements of this paragraph including functions such as the following:
( a ) Load hoisting and lowering mechanisms.
( b ) Boom hoisting and lower mechanisms.
( c ) Swinging mechanism.
( d ) Travel mechanism.
( e ) Safety devices.
(ii) Where the complete production crane is not supplied by one manufacturer such tests shall be conducted at final assembly.
(iii) Certified production-crane test results shall be made available.
(2) Rated load test. (i) Written reports shall be available showing test procedures and confirming the adequacy of repairs or alterations.
(ii) Test loads shall not exceed 110 percent of the rated load at any selected working radius.
(iii) Where rerating is necessary:
