§ 1910.1018 Inorganic arsenic.
(E) The environmental variables that could affect the measurement of the employee's exposure.
(iii) The employer shall maintain these monitoring records for at least 40 years or for the duration of employment plus 20 years, whichever, is longer.
(2) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical surveillance as required by paragraph (n) of this section.
(ii) This record shall include:
(A) The name and description of duties of the employee;
(B) A copy of the physician's written opinions;
(C) Results of any exposure monitoring done for that employee and the representative exposure levels supplied to the physician; and
(D) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to inorganic arsenic.
(iii) The employer shall in addition keep, or assure that the examining physician keeps, the following medical records;
(A) A copy of the medical examination results including medical and work history required under paragraph (n) of this section;
(B) A description of the laboratory procedures and a copy of any standards or guidelines used to interpret the test results or references to that information;
(C) The initial X-ray;
(D) The X-rays for the most recent 5 years; and
(E) Any X-rays with a demonstrated abnormality and all subsequent X-rays;
(iv) The employer shall maintain or assure that the physician maintains those medical records for at least 40 years, or for the duration of employment plus 20 years whichever is longer.
(3) Availability. (i) The employer shall make available upon request all records required to be maintained by paragraph (q) of this section to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying.
(ii) Records required by this paragraph shall be provided upon request to employees, designated representatives, and the Assistant Secretary in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020 (a) through (e) and (g) through (i).
(4) Transfer of records. (i) Whenever the employer ceases to do business, the successor employer shall receive and retain all records required to be maintained by this section.
(ii) The employer shall also comply with any additional requirements involving the transfer of records set in 29 CFR 1910.1020(h).
