§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(2) Subjects to be covered. The briefing shall cover at least the following subjects: hazards associated with the job, work procedures involved, special precautions, energy-source controls, and personal protective equipment requirements.
(3) Number of briefings. (i) If the work or operations to be performed during the work day or shift are repetitive and similar, at least one job briefing shall be conducted before the start of the first job of each day or shift.
(ii) Additional job briefings shall be held if significant changes, which might affect the safety of the employees, occur during the course of the work.
(4) Extent of briefing. (i) A brief discussion is satisfactory if the work involved is routine and if the employees, by virtue of training and experience, can reasonably be expected to recognize and avoid the hazards involved in the job.
(ii) A more extensive discussion shall be conducted:
(A) If the work is complicated or particularly hazardous, or
(B) If the employee cannot be expected to recognize and avoid the hazards involved in the job.
Note: Note to paragraph ( c )(4): The briefing must address all the subjects listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(5) Working alone. An employee working alone need not conduct a job briefing. However, the employer shall ensure that the tasks to be performed are planned as if a briefing were required.
(d) Hazardous energy control (lockout/tagout) procedures —(1) Application. The provisions of paragraph (d) of this section apply to the use of lockout/tagout procedures for the control of energy sources in installations for the purpose of electric power generation, including related equipment for communication or metering. Locking and tagging procedures for the deenergizing of electric energy sources which are used exclusively for purposes of transmission and distribution are addressed by paragraph (m) of this section.
Note: Note to paragraph ( d )(1): Installations in electric power generation facilities that are not an integral part of, or inextricably commingled with, power generation processes or equipment are covered under § 1910.147 and Subpart S of this part.
