§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(iv) Is experiencing both fever (>=100.4 degrees F) and new unexplained cough associated with shortness of breath.
(3) Employer notification to employees of COVID-19 exposure in the workplace. (i) Except as provided for in paragraph (l)(3)(iii) of this section, when the employer is notified that a person who has been in the workplace(s) (including employees, clients, patients, residents, vendors, contractors, customers, delivery people and other visitors, or other non-employees) is COVID-19 positive, the employer must, within 24 hours:
(A) Notify each employee who was not wearing a respirator and any other required PPE and has been in close contact with that person in the workplace. The notification must state the fact that the employee was in close contact with someone with COVID-19 along with the date(s) that contact occurred.
(B) Notify all other employees who were not wearing a respirator and any other required PPE and worked in a well-defined portion of a workplace ( e.g., a particular floor) in which that person was present during the potential transmission period. The potential transmission period runs from 2 days before the person felt sick (or, for asymptomatic people, 2 days prior to test specimen collection) until the time the person is isolated. The notification must specify the date(s) the person with COVID-19 was in the workplace during the potential transmission period.
(C) Notify other employers whose employees were not wearing respirators and any other required PPE and have been in close contact with that person, or worked in a well-defined portion of a workplace ( e.g., a particular floor) in which that person was present, during the potential transmission period. The potential transmission period runs from 2 days before the person felt sick (or, for asymptomatic people, 2 days prior to test specimen collection) until the time the person is isolated. The notification must specify the date(s) the person with COVID-19 was in the workplace during the potential transmission period and the location(s) where the person with COVID-19 was in the workplace.
