§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(i) A guardrail shall be provided at broke holes in accordance with § 1910.23.
(13) Broke hole. (i) A guardrail that complies with subpart D of this part shall be provided at broke holes.
(ii) Where pulpers are located directly below the broke hole on a paper machine and where the broke hole opening is large enough to permit a worker to fall through, any employee pushing broke down the hole shall wear a safety belt attached to a safety belt line. The safety belt line shall be fastened in such a manner that it is impossible for the person to fall into the pulper.
(iii) An alarm bell or a flashing light shall be actuated before dropping material through the broke hole.
(14) Feeder belt. A feeder belt or other effective device shall be provided for starting paper through the calender stack.
(15) Steps. Steps or ladders that comply with subpart D of this part and tread with nonslip surfaces shall be provided at each calendar stack. Handrails and hand grips complying with subpart D shall be provided at each calendar stack.
(16) [Reserved]
(17) Sole plates. All exposed sole plates between dryers, calenders, reels, and rewinders shall have a nonskid surface.
(18) Nip points. The hazard of the nip points on all calender rolls shall be eliminated or minimized by means of an effective barrier device, or by feeding the paper into the rolls by means of a rope carrier, air jets, or hand feeding devices.
(19) Platforms. [Reserved]
(20) Scrapers. Alloy steel scrapers with pullthrough blades approximately 3 by 5 inches in size shall be used to remove "scabs" from calender rolls.
(21) Illumination. Permanent lighting shall be installed in all areas where employees are required to make machine adjustments and sheet transfers in accordance with the American National Standard A11.1—1965 (R 1970).
(22) Control panels. All control panel handles and buttons shall be protected from accidental contact.
(23) [Reserved]
(24) Lifting reels. (i) The reels shall stop rotating before being lifted from bearings.
