§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
(3) Each tenoning machine shall have all cutting heads, and saws if used, covered by metal guards. These guards shall cover at least the unused part of the periphery of the cutting head. If such a guard is constructed of sheet metal, the material used shall be not less than one-sixteenth inch in thickness, and if cast iron is used, it shall be not less than three-sixteenths inch in thickness.
(4) Where an exhaust system is used, the guard shall form part or all of the exhaust hood and shall be constructed of metal of a thickness not less than that specified in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
(l) Boring and mortising machines. (1) Safety-bit chucks with no projecting set screws shall be used.
(2) Boring bits should be provided with a guard that will enclose all portions of the bit and chuck above the material being worked.
(3) The top of the cutting chain and driving mechanism shall be enclosed.
(4) If there is a counterweight, one of the following or equivalent means shall be used to prevent its dropping:
(i) It shall be bolted to the bar by means of a bolt passing through both bar and counterweight;
(ii) A bolt shall be put through the extreme end of the bar;
(iii) Where the counterweight does not encircle the bar, a safety chain shall be attached to it;
(iv) Other types of counterweights shall be suspended by chain or wire rope and shall travel in a pipe or other suitable enclosure wherever they might fall and cause injury.
(5) Universal joints on spindles of boring machines shall be completely enclosed in such a way as to prevent accidental contact by the operator.
(6) Each operating treadle shall be covered by an inverted U-shaped metal guard, fastened to the floor, and of adequate size to prevent accidental tripping.
(m) Wood shapers and similar equipment. (1) The cutting heads of each wood shaper, hand-fed panel raiser, or other similar machine not automatically fed, shall be enclosed with a cage or adjustable guard so designed as to keep the operator's hand away from the cutting edge. The diameter of circular shaper guards shall be not less than the greatest diameter of the cutter. In no case shall a warning device of leather or other material attached to the spindle be acceptable.
(2) [Reserved]
