§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(xv) A crane with or without load shall not be traveled with the boom so high that it may bounce back over the cab.
(xvi) When rotating the crane, sudden starts and stops shall be avoided. Rotational speed shall be such that the load does not swing out beyond the radii at which it can be controlled. A tag or restraint line shall be used when rotation of the load is hazardous.
(xvii) When a crane is to be operated at a fixed radius, the boom-hoist pawl or other positive locking device shall be engaged.
(xviii) Ropes shall not be handled on a winch head without the knowledge of the operator.
(xix) While a winch head is being used, the operator shall be within convenient reach of the power unit control lever.
(4) Holding the load. (i) The operator shall not be permitted to leave his position at the controls while the load is suspended.
(ii) No person should be permitted to stand or pass under a load on the hook.
(iii) If the load must remain suspended for any considerable length of time, the operator shall hold the drum from rotating in the lowering direction by activating the positive controllable means of the operator's station.
(i) Other requirements —(1) Rail clamps. Rail clamps shall not be used as a means of restraining tipping of a locomotive crane.
(2) Ballast or counterweight. Cranes shall not be operated without the full amount of any ballast or counterweight in place as specified by the maker, but truck cranes that have dropped the ballast or counterweight may be operated temporarily with special care and only for light loads without full ballast or counterweight in place. The ballast or counterweight in place specified by the manufacturer shall not be exceeded.
(3) Cabs. (i) Necessary clothing and personal belongings shall be stored in such a manner as to not interfere with access or operation.
(ii) Tools, oil cans, waste, extra fuses, and other necessary articles shall be stored in the tool box, and shall not be permitted to lie loose in or about the cab.
(4) Refueling. (i) Refueling with small portable containers shall be done with an approved safety type can equipped with an automatic closing cap and flame arrester. Refer to § 1910.155(c)(3) for definition of approved.
(ii) Machines shall not be refueled with the engine running.
