§ 1910.272 Grain handling facilities.
(2) Direct-heat grain dryers installed after March 30, 1988 shall be:
(i) Located outside the grain elevator; or
(ii) Located in an area inside the grain elevator protected by a fire or explosion suppression system; or
(iii) Located in an area inside the grain elevator which is separated from other areas of the facility by construction having at least a one hour fire-resistance rating.
(q) Inside bucket elevators. (1) Bucket elevators shall not be jogged to free a choked leg.
(2) All belts and lagging purchased after March 30, 1988 shall be conductive. Such belts shall have a surface electrical resistance not to exceed 300 megohms.
(3) All bucket elevators shall be equipped with a means of access to the head pulley section to allow inspection of the head pulley, lagging, belt, and discharge throat of the elevator head. The boot section shall also be provided with a means of access for clean-out of the boot and for inspection of the boot, pulley, and belt.
(4) All the employer shall:
(i) Mount bearings externally to the leg casing; or,
(ii) Provide vibration monitoring, temperature monitoring, or other means to monitor the condition of those bearings mounted inside or partially-inside the leg casing.
(5) All the employer shall equip bucket elevators with a motion detection device which will shut-down the bucket elevator when the belt speed is reduced by no more than 20% of the normal operating speed.
(6) All the employer shall:
(i) Equip bucket elevators with a belt alignment monitoring device which will initiate an alarm to employees when the belt is not tracking properly; or,
(ii) Provide a means to keep the belt tracking properly, such as a system that provides constant alignment adjustment of belts.
(7) Paragraphs (q)(5) and (q)(6) of this section do not apply to grain elevators having a permanent storage capacity of less than one million bushels, provided that daily visual inspection is made of bucket movement and tracking of the belt.
(8) Paragraphs (q)(4), (q)(5), and (q)(6) of this section do not apply to the following:
