§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(iv) Side loading of booms shall be limited to freely suspended loads. Cranes shall not be used for dragging loads sideways.
(v) No hoisting, lowering, swinging, or traveling shall be done while anyone is on the load or hook.
(vi) The operator should avoid carrying loads over people.
(vii) On truck-mounted cranes, no loads shall be lifted over the front area except as approved by the crane manufacturer.
(viii) The operator shall test the brakes each time a load approaching the rated load is handled by raising it a few inches and applying the brakes.
(ix) Outriggers shall be used when the load to be handled at that particular radius exceeds the rated load without outriggers as given by the manufacturer for that crane. Where floats are used they shall be securely attached to the outriggers. Wood blocks used to support outriggers shall:
( a ) Be strong enough to prevent crushing.
( b ) Be free from defects.
( c ) Be of sufficient width and length to prevent shifting or toppling under load.
(x) Neither the load nor the boom shall be lowered below the point where less than two full wraps of rope remain on their respective drums.
(xi) Before lifting loads with locomotive cranes without using outriggers, means shall be applied to prevent the load from being carried by the truck springs.
(xii) When two or more cranes are used to lift one load, one designated person shall be responsible for the operation. He shall be required to analyze the operation and instruct all personnel involved in the proper positioning, rigging of the load, and the movements to be made.
(xiii) In transit the following additional precautions shall be exercised:
( a ) The boom shall be carried in line with the direction of motion.
( b ) The superstructure shall be secured against rotation, except when negotiating turns when there is an operator in the cab or the boom is supported on a dolly.
( c ) The empty hook shall be lashed or otherwise restrained so that it cannot swing freely.
(xiv) Before traveling a crane with load, a designated person shall be responsible for determining and controlling safety. Decisions such as position of load, boom location, ground support, travel route, and speed of movement shall be in accord with his determinations.
(xv) A crane with or without load shall not be traveled with the boom so high that it may bounce back over the cab.
