§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(v) Open flames (except as provided for in paragraph (b)(11) of this section), cutting or welding, portable electric tools, and extension lights capable of igniting LP-Gas, shall not be permitted within classified areas specified in Table H-28 unless the LP-Gas facilities have been freed of all liquid and vapor, or special precautions observed under carefully controlled conditions. Table H-28 ---------- Part Location Extent of classified area 1 Equipment shall be suitable for Class 1, Group D 2 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A Storage containers other than DOT cylinders Within 15 feet in all directions from connections, except connections otherwise covered in Table H-28 Division 2. B Tank vehicle and tank car loading and unloading 3 Within 5 feet in all directions from connections regularly made or disconnected for product transfer Division 1. Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from a point where connections are regularly made or disconnected and within the cylindrical volume between the horizontal equator of the sphere and grade. (See Figure H-1) Division 2. C Gage vent openings other than those on DOT cylinders Within 5 feet in all directions from point of discharge Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from point of discharge Division 1. Division 2. D Relief valve discharge other than those on DOT cylinders Within direct path of discharge Division 1. Within 5 feet in all directions from point of discharge Division 1. Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from point of discharge except within the direct path of discharge Division 2. E Pumps, compressors, gas-air mixers and vaporizers other than direct fired Indoors without ventilation Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 1. Within 15 feet of the exterior side of any exterior wall or roof that is not vaportight or within 15 feet of any exterior opening Division 2. Indoors with adequate ventilation 4 Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 2. Outdoors in open air at or abovegrade Within 15 feet in all directions from this equipment and within the cylindrical volume between the horizontal equator of the sphere and grade. See Figure H-1 Division 2. F Service Station Dispensing Units Entire space within dispenser enclosure, and 18 inches horizontally from enclosure exterior up to an elevation 4 ft. above dispenser base. Entire pit or open space beneath dispenser Division 1. Up to 18 inches abovegrade within 20 ft. horizontally from any edge of enclosure Division 2.