§ 1910.1043 Cotton dust.
(c) Permissible exposure limits and action levels —(1) Permissible exposure limits (PEL). (i) The employer shall assure that no employee who is exposed to cotton dust in yarn manufacturing and cotton washing operations is exposed to airborne concentrations of lint-free respirable cotton dust greater than 200 µg/m 3 mean concentration, averaged over an eight-hour period, as measured be a vertical elutriator or an equivalent instrument.
(ii) The employer shall assure that no employee who is exposed to cotton dust in textile mill waste house operations or is exposed in yarn manufacturing to dust from "lower grade washed cotton" as defined in paragraph (n)(5) of this section is exposed to airborne concentrations of lint-free respirable cotton dust greater than 500 µg/m 3 mean concentration, averaged over an eight-hour period, as measured by a vertical elutriator or an equivalent instrument.
(iii) The employer shall assure that no employee who is exposed to cotton dust in the textile processes known as slashing and weaving is exposed to airborne concentrations of lint-free respirable cotton dust greater than 750 µg/m 3 mean concentration, averaged over an eight hour period, as measured by a vertical elutriator or an equivalent instrument.
(2) Action levels. (i) The action level for yarn manufacturing and cotton washing operations is an airborne concentration of lint-free respirable cotton dust of 100 µg/m 3 mean concentration, averaged over an eight-hour period, as measured by a vertical elutriator or an equivalent instrument.
(ii) The action level for waste houses for textile operations is an airborne concentration of lint-free respirable cotton dust of 250 µg/m 3 mean concentration, averaged over an eight-hour period, as measured by a vertical elutriator or an equivalent instrument.
(iii) The action level for the textile processes known as slashing and weaving is an airborne concentration of lint-free respirable cotton dust of 375 µg/m 3 mean concentration, averaged over an eight-hour period, as measured by a vertical elutriator or an equivalent instrument.
(d) Exposure monitoring and measurement —(1) General. (i) For the purposes of this section, employee exposure is that exposure which would occur if the employee were not using a respirator.
