§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(B) Portable generators shall not be used within 10 feet (3 m) of combustible material other than the floor. (C) Portable generators shall not be used in rooms of total volume less than 35 times the total gas-generating capacity per charge of all generators in the room. Generators shall not be used in rooms having a ceiling height of less than 10 feet (3 m). (To obtain the gas-generating capacity in cubic feet per charge, multiply the pounds of carbide per charge by 4.5.) (D) Portable generators shall be protected against freezing. The use of salt or other corrosive chemical to prevent freezing is prohibited. (ii)(A) Portable generators shall be cleaned and recharged and the air mixture blown off outside buildings. (B) When charged with carbide, portable generators shall not be moved by crane or derrick. (C) When not in use, portable generators shall not be stored in rooms in which open flames are used unless the generators contain no carbide and have been thoroughly purged of acetylene. Storage rooms shall be well ventilated. (D) When portable acetylene generators are to be transported and operated on vehicles, they shall be securely anchored to the vehicles. If transported by truck, the motor shall be turned off during charging, cleaning, and generating periods. (E) Portable generators shall be located at a safe distance from the welding position so that they will not be exposed to sparks, slag, or misdirection of the torch flame or overheating from hot materials or processes. (6) Outside generator houses and inside generator rooms for stationary acetylene generators. (i)(A) No opening in any outside generator house shall be located within 5 feet (1.5 m) of any opening in another building. (B) Walls, floors, and roofs of outside generator houses shall be of noncombustible construction. (C) When a part of the generator house is to be used for the storage or manifolding of oxygen cylinders, the space to be so occupied shall be separated from the generator or carbide storage section by partition walls continuous from floor to roof or ceiling, of the type of construction stated in paragraph (f)(6)(i)(H) of this section. Such separation walls shall be without openings and shall be joined to the floor, other walls and ceiling or roof in a manner to