§ 1910.1200 Hazard communication.
 (h) Evaporation rate;
 (i) Flammability (solid, gas);
 (j) Upper/lower flammability or explosive limits;
 (k) Vapor pressure;
 (l) Vapor density;
 (m) Relative density;
 (n) Solubility(ies);
 (o) Partition coefficient: n-octanol/water;
 (p) Auto-ignition temperature;
 (q) Decomposition temperature;
 (r) Viscosity.
10. Stability and reactivity (a) Reactivity;
 (b) Chemical stability;
 (c) Possibility of hazardous reactions;
 (d) Conditions to avoid (e.g., static discharge, shock, or vibration);
 (e) Incompatible materials;
 (f) Hazardous decomposition products.
11. Toxicological information Description of the various toxicological (health) effects and the available data used to identify those effects, including:
 (a) Information on the likely routes of exposure (inhalation, ingestion, skin and eye contact);
 (b) Symptoms related to the physical, chemical and toxicological characteristics;
 (c) Delayed and immediate effects and also chronic effects from short- and long-term exposure;
 (d) Numerical measures of toxicity (such as acute toxicity estimates).
 (e) Whether the hazardous chemical is listed in the National Toxicology Program (NTP) Report on Carcinogens (latest edition) or has been found to be a potential carcinogen in the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) Monographs (latest edition), or by OSHA.
12. Ecological information (Non-mandatory) (a) Ecotoxicity (aquatic and terrestrial, where available); (b) Persistence and degradability; (c) Bioaccumulative potential; (d) Mobility in soil; (e) Other adverse effects (such as hazardous to the ozone layer).
13. Disposal considerations (Non-mandatory) Description of waste residues and information on their safe handling and methods of disposal, including the disposal of any contaminated packaging.
14. Transport information (Non-mandatory) (a) UN number;
 (b) UN proper shipping name;
 (c) Transport hazard class(es);
 (d) Packing group, if applicable;
 (e) Environmental hazards (e.g., Marine pollutant (Yes/No));
