§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(viii) Provision shall be made to secure both ends of the hose while in transit.
(5) Marking the container. There shall appear on each side and on the rear end of the container in letters at least 4 inches high, the words, "Caution—Ammonia" or the container shall be marked in accordance with DOT regulations.
(6) Farm vehicles. (i) Farm vehicles shall conform with State regulations.
(ii) All trailers shall be securely attached to the vehicle drawing them by means of drawbars supplemented by suitable safety chains.
(iii) A trailer shall be constructed so that it will follow substantially in the path of the towing vehicle and will not whip or swerve dangerously from side to side.
(iv) All vehicles shall carry a can containing 5 gallons or more of water.
(h) Systems mounted on farm vehicles for the application of ammonia. (1) This paragraph applies to systems utilizing containers of 250 gallons capacity or less which are mounted on farm vehicles (implement of husbandry) and used for the application of ammonia to the soil. Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted. Where larger containers are used, they shall comply with paragraph (g) of this section.
(2) Design pressure and classification of containers. (i) The minimum design pressure for containers shall be 250 p.s.i.g.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall not be less than three-sixteenths inch.
(3) Mounting of containers. All containers and flow-control devices shall be securely mounted.
(4) Container valves and accessories. (i) Each container shall have a fixed liquid-level gage.
(ii) The filling connection shall be fitted with a combination back-pressure check valve and an excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves: or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess-flow valve.
(iii) The applicator tank may be filled by venting to open air provided the bleeder valve orifice does not exceed seven-sixteenths inch in diameter.
(iv) Regulation equipment may be connected directly to the tank coupling or flange, in which case a flexible connection shall be used between such regulating equipment and the remainder of the liquid withdrawal system. Regulating equipment not so installed shall be flexibly connected to the container shutoff valve.
