§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(4) Content of medical examinations and consultations. (i) Medical examinations required by paragraph (f)(3) of this section shall include a medical and work history (or updated history if one is in the employee's file) with special emphasis on symptoms related to the handling of hazardous substances and health hazards, and to fitness for duty including the ability to wear any required PPE under conditions (i.e., temperature extremes) that may be expected at the work site.
(ii) The content of medical examinations or consultations made available to employees pursuant to paragraph (f) shall be determined by the attending physician. The guidelines in the Occupational Safety and Health Guidance Manual for Hazardous Waste Site Activities (See appendix D, Reference #10) should be consulted.
(5) Examination by a physician and costs. All medical examinations and procedures shall be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, preferably one knowledgeable in occupational medicine, and shall be provided without cost to the employee, without loss of pay, and at a reasonable time and place.
(6) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide one copy of this standard and its appendices to the attending physician, and in addition the following for each employee:
(i) A description of the employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposures.
(ii) The employee's exposure levels or anticipated exposure levels.
(iii) A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used.
(iv) Information from previous medical examinations of the employee which is not readily available to the examining physician.
(v) Information required by § 1910.134.
(7) Physician's written opinion. (i) The employer shall obtain and furnish the employee with a copy of a written opinion from the attending physician containing the following:
(A) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical conditions which would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment of the employee's health from work in hazardous waste operations or emergency response, or from respirator use.
(B) The physician's recommended limitations upon the employee's assigned work.
(C) The results of the medical examination and tests if requested by the employee.
(D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and any medical conditions which require further examination or treatment.
