§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(46) Trestle. The term trestle means a braced framework of timbers, piles or steelwork for carrying a road or railroad over a depression.
(c) Building facilities, and isolated equipment —(1) Safety factor. All buildings, docks, tramways, walkways, log dumps, and other structures shall be designed, constructed and maintained so as to support the imposed load in accordance with a safety factor.
(2) Work areas. Work areas under mills shall be as evenly surfaced as local conditions permit. They shall be free from unnecessary obstructions and provided with lighting facilities in accordance with American National Standard for Industrial Lighting A11.1—1965, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(3) Floors. Flooring in buildings and on ramps and walkways shall be constructed and installed in accordance with established principles of mechanics and sound engineering practices. They shall be of adequate strength to support the estimated or actual dead and live loads acting on them with the resultant stress not exceeding the allowable stress for the material being used.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Areas beneath floor openings. Areas under floor openings shall, where practical, be fenced off. When this is not practical, they shall be plainly marked and telltales shall be installed to hang over these areas.
(iii) Floor maintenance. The flooring of buildings, docks, and passageways shall be kept in good repair. When a hazardous condition develops that cannot be immediately repaired, the area shall be guarded until adequate repairs are made.
(iv) Nonslip floors. Floors, footwalks, and passageways in the work area around machines or other places where a person is required to stand or walk shall be provided with effective means to minimize slipping.
(4) Walkways, docks, and platforms —(i) Width. Walkways, docks, and platforms shall be of sufficient width to provide adequate passage and working areas.
(ii) Maintenance. Walkways shall be evenly floored and kept in good repair.
(iii) Docks. Docks and runways used for the operation of lift trucks and other vehicles shall have a substantial guard or shear timber except where loading and unloading are being performed.
