§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(6) Clearance from obstruction. (i) Minimum clearance of 3 inches overhead and 2 inches laterally shall be provided and maintained between crane and obstructions in conformity with Crane Manufacturers Association of America, Inc., Specification No. 61, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6 (formerly the Electric Overhead Crane Institute, Inc).
(ii) Where passageways or walkways are provided obstructions shall not be placed so that safety of personnel will be jeopardized by movements of the crane.
(7) Clearance between parallel cranes. If the runways of two cranes are parallel, and there are no intervening walls or structure, there shall be adequate clearance provided and maintained between the two bridges.
(8) Designated personnel —Only designated personnel shall be permitted to operate a crane covered by this section.
(c) Cabs —(1) Cab location. (i) The general arrangement of the cab and the location of control and protective equipment shall be such that all operating handles are within convenient reach of the operator when facing the area to be served by the load hook, or while facing the direction of travel of the cab. The arrangement shall allow the operator a full view of the load hook in all positions.
(ii) The cab shall be located to afford a minimum of 3 inches clearance from all fixed structures within its area of possible movement.
(2) Access to crane. Access to the car and/or bridge walkway shall be by a conveniently placed fixed ladder, stairs, or platform requiring no step over any gap exceeding 12 inches (30 cm). Fixed ladders must comply with subpart D of this part.
(3) Fire extinguisher. Carbon tetrachloride extinguishers shall not be used.
(4) Lighting. Light in the cab shall be sufficient to enable the operator to see clearly enough to perform his work.
(d) Footwalks and ladders —(1) Location of footwalks. (i) If sufficient headroom is available on cab-operated cranes, a footwalk shall be provided on the drive side along the entire length of the bridge of all cranes having the trolley running on the top of the girders.
(ii) Where footwalks are located in no case shall less than 48 inches of headroom be provided.
