§ 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
(iii) In dry locations, where not exposed to severe physical damage, conductors may be separately enclosed in flexible nonmetallic tubing. The tubing shall be in continuous lengths not exceeding 4.57 m (15.0 ft) and secured to the surface by straps at intervals not exceeding 1.37 m (4.5 ft).
(iv) Open conductors shall be separated from contact with walls, floors, wood cross members, or partitions through which they pass by tubes or bushings of noncombustible, nonabsorbent insulating material. If the bushing is shorter than the hole, a waterproof sleeve of nonconductive material shall be inserted in the hole and an insulating bushing slipped into the sleeve at each end in such a manner as to keep the conductors absolutely out of contact with the sleeve. Each conductor shall be carried through a separate tube or sleeve.
(v) Where open conductors cross ceiling joints and wall studs and are exposed to physical damage (for example, located within 2.13 m (7.0 ft) of the floor), they shall be protected.
(b) Cabinets, boxes, and fittings —(1) Conductors entering boxes, cabinets, or fittings. (i) Conductors entering cutout boxes, cabinets, or fittings shall be protected from abrasion, and openings through which conductors enter shall be effectively closed.
(ii) Unused openings in cabinets, boxes, and fittings shall be effectively closed.
(iii) Where cable is used, each cable shall be secured to the cabinet, cutout box, or meter socket enclosure. However, where cable with an entirely nonmetallic sheath enters the top of a surface-mounted enclosure through one or more nonflexible raceways not less than 457 mm (18 in.) or more than 3.05 m (10.0 ft) in length, the cable need not be secured to the cabinet, box, or enclosure provided all of the following conditions are met:
(A) Each cable is fastened within 305 mm (12 in.) of the outer end of the raceway, measured along the sheath;
(B) The raceway extends directly above the enclosure and does not penetrate a structural ceiling;
(C) A fitting is provided on each end of the raceway to protect the cable from abrasion, and the fittings remain accessible after installation;
