§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(25) Mast means the upright member of the derrick.
(26) Mast cap (spider) means the fitting at the top of the mast to which the guys are connected.
(27) Reeving means a rope system in which the rope travels around drums and sheaves.
(28) Rope refers to wire rope unless otherwise specified.
(29) Safety Hook means a hook with a latch to prevent slings or load from accidentally slipping off the hook.
(30) Side loading is a load applied at an angle to the vertical plane of the boom.
(31) The sill is a member connecting the foot block and stiffleg or a member connecting the lower ends of a double member mast.
(32) A standby derrick is a derrick not in regular service which is used occasionally or intermittently as required.
(33) Stiffleg means a rigid member supporting the mast at the head.
(34) Swing means rotation of the mast and/or boom for movements of loads in a horizontal direction about the axis of rotation.
(b) General requirements —(1) Application. This section applies to guy, stiffleg, basket, breast, gin pole, Chicago boom and A-frame derricks of the stationary type, capable of handling loads at variable reaches and powered by hoists through systems of rope reeving, used to perform lifting hook work, single or multiple line bucket work, grab, grapple, and magnet work. Derricks may be permanently installed for temporary use as in construction work. The requirements of this section also apply to any modification of these types which retain their fundamental features, except for floating derricks.
(2) New and existing equipment. All new derricks constructed and installed on or after August 31, 1971, shall meet the design specifications of the American National Standard Safety Code for Derricks, ANSI B30.6-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(3) Designated personnel. Only designated personnel shall be permitted to operate a derrick covered by this section.
(c) Load ratings —(1) Rated load marking. For permanently installed derricks with fixed lengths of boom, guy, and mast, a substantial, durable, and clearly legible rating chart shall be provided with each derrick and securely affixed where it is visible to personnel responsible for the safe operation of the equipment. The chart shall include the following data:
