§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(b) Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section: Aerosol-generating procedure means a medical procedure that generates aerosols that can be infectious and are of respirable size. For the purposes of this section, only the following medical procedures are considered aerosol-generating procedures: Open suctioning of airways; sputum induction; cardiopulmonary resuscitation; endotracheal intubation and extubation; non-invasive ventilation ( e.g., BiPAP, CPAP); bronchoscopy; manual ventilation; medical/surgical/postmortem procedures using oscillating bone saws; and dental procedures involving: Ultrasonic scalers; high-speed dental handpieces; air/water syringes; air polishing; and air abrasion. Airborne infection isolation room (AIIR) means a dedicated negative pressure patient-care room, with special air handling capability, which is used to isolate persons with a suspected or confirmed airborne-transmissible infectious disease. AIIRs include both permanent rooms and temporary structures ( e.g., a booth, tent or other enclosure designed to operate under negative pressure). Ambulatory care means healthcare services performed on an outpatient basis, without admission to a hospital or other facility. It is provided in settings such as: Offices of physicians and other health care professionals; hospital outpatient departments; ambulatory surgical centers; specialty clinics or centers ( e.g., dialysis, infusion, medical imaging); and urgent care clinics. Ambulatory care does not include home healthcare settings for the purposes of this section. Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee. Clean/cleaning means the removal of dirt and impurities, including germs, from surfaces using soap and water or other cleaning agents. Cleaning alone reduces germs on surfaces by removing contaminants and may also weaken or damage some of the virus particles, which decreases risk of infection from surfaces. Close contact means being within 6 feet of any other person for a cumulative total of 15 minutes or more over a 24-hour period during that person's potential period of transmission. The potential transmission period runs from 2 days before the person felt sick (or, for asymptomatic people, 2 days prior to test specimen collection) until the time the person is isolated. Common