§ 1910.219 Mechanical power-transmission apparatus.
(2) It is recommended, however, that no projecting setscrews or oilcups be used in any revolving pulley or part of machinery.
(i) Collars and couplings —(1) Collars. All revolving collars, including split collars, shall be cylindrical, and screws or bolts used in collars shall not project beyond the largest periphery of the collar.
(2) Couplings. Shaft couplings shall be so constructed as to present no hazard from bolts, nuts, setscrews, or revolving surfaces. Bolts, nuts, and setscrews will, however, be permitted where they are covered with safety sleeves or where they are used parallel with the shafting and are countersunk or else do not extend beyond the flange of the coupling.
(j) Bearings and facilities for oiling. All drip cups and pans shall be securely fastened.
(k) Guarding of clutches, cutoff couplings, and clutch pulleys —(1) Guards. Clutches, cutoff couplings, or clutch pulleys having projecting parts, where such clutches are located seven (7) feet or less above the floor or working platform, shall be enclosed by a stationary guard constructed in accordance with this section. A "U" type guard is permissible.
(2) Engine rooms. In engine rooms a guardrail, preferably with toeboard, may be used instead of the guard required by paragraph (k)(1) of this section, provided such a room is occupied only by engine room attendants.
(l) Belt shifters, clutches, shippers, poles, perches, and fasteners —(1) Belt shifters. (i) Tight and loose pulleys on all new installations made on or after August 31, 1971, shall be equipped with a permanent belt shifter provided with mechanical means to prevent belt from creeping from loose to tight pulley. It is recommended that old installations be changed to conform to this rule.
(ii) Belt shifter and clutch handles shall be rounded and be located as far as possible from danger of accidental contact, but within easy reach of the operator. Where belt shifters are not directly located over a machine or bench, the handles shall be cut off six feet six inches (6 ft. 6 in.) above floor level.
(2) Belt shippers and shipper poles. The use of belt poles as substitutes for mechanical shifters is not recommended.
