§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
(b) Definitions. For the purpose of this section: Authorized person means any person specifically authorized by the employer whose duties require the person to enter a regulated area, or any person entering such an area as a designated representative of employees for the purpose of exercising the opportunity to observe monitoring and measuring procedures under paragraph (n) of this section. Beehive oven means a coke oven in which the products of carbonization other than coke are not recovered, but are released into the ambient air. Coke oven means a retort in which coke is produced by the destructive distillation or carbonization of coal. Coke oven battery means a structure containing a number of slot-type coke ovens. Coke oven emissions means the benzene-soluble fraction of total particulate matter present during the destructive distillation or carbonization of coal for the production of coke. Director means the Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, or his or her designee. Emergency means any occurance such as, but not limited to, equipment failure which is likely to, or does, result in any massive release of coke oven emissions. Existing coke oven battery means a battery in operation or under construction on January 20, 1977, and which is not a rehabilitated coke oven battery. Rehabilitated coke oven battery means a battery which is rebuilt, overhauled, renovated, or restored such as from the pad up, after January 20, 1977. Secretary means the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, or his or her designee. Stage charging means a procedure by which a predetermined volume of coal in each larry car hopper is introduced into an oven such that no more than two hoppers are discharging simultaneously. Sequential charging means a procedure, usually automatically timed, by which a predetermined volume of coal in each larry car hopper is introduced into an oven such that no more than two hoppers commence or finish discharging simultaneously although, at some point, all hoppers are discharging simultaneously. Pipeline charging means any apparatus used to introduce coal into an oven which uses a pipe or duct permanently mounted onto an oven and through which coal is charged. Green plush means coke which when removed from the oven results in emissions due to the presence of unvolatilized coal. (c) Permissible exposure limit. The employer shall assure that no employee in the regulated area is exposed to coke oven emissions at concentrations