§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(12) A boom is a timber or metal section or strut, pivoted or hinged at the heel (lower end) at a location fixed in height on a frame or mast or vertical member, and with its point (upper end) supported by chains, ropes, or rods to the upper end of the frame, mast, or vertical member. A rope for raising and lowering the load is reeved through sheaves or a block at the boom point. The length of the boom shall be taken as the straight line distance between the axis of the foot pin and the axis of the boom point sheave pin, or where used, the axis of the upper load block attachment pin.
(13) Boom harness means the block and sheave arrangement on the boom point to which the topping lift cable is reeved for lowering and raising the boom.
(14) The boom point is the outward end of the top section of the boom.
(15) Derrick bullwheel means a horizontal ring or wheel, fastened to the foot of a derrick, for the purpose of turning the derrick by means of ropes leading from this wheel to a powered drum.
(16) Designated means selected or assigned by the employer or employer's representative as being qualified to perform specific duties.
(17) Eye means a loop formed at the end of a rope by securing the dead end to the live end at the base of the loop.
(18) A fiddle block is a block consisting of two sheaves in the same plane held in place by the same cheek plates.
(19) The foot bearing or foot block (sill block) is the lower support on which the mast rotates.
(20) A gudgeon pin is a pin connecting the mast cap to the mast allowing rotation of the mast.
(21) A guy is a rope used to steady or secure the mast or other member in the desired position.
(22) Load, working means the external load, in pounds, applied to the derrick, including the weight of load attaching equipment such as load blocks, shackles, and slings.
(23) Load block, lower means the assembly of sheaves, pins, and frame suspended by the hoisting rope.
(24) Load block, upper means the assembly of sheaves, pins, and frame suspended from the boom.
(25) Mast means the upright member of the derrick.
