§ 1910.399 Definitions applicable to this subpart.
(3) Insulated. A conductor encased within material of composition and thickness that is recognized by this subpart as electrical insulation. Conduit body. A separate portion of a conduit or tubing system that provides access through one or more removable covers to the interior of the system at a junction of two or more sections of the system or at a terminal point of the system. Boxes such as FS and FD or larger cast or sheet metal boxes are not classified as conduit bodies. Controller. A device or group of devices that serves to govern, in some predetermined manner, the electric power delivered to the apparatus to which it is connected. Covered conductor. See Conductor. Cutout. (Over 600 volts, nominal.) An assembly of a fuse support with either a fuseholder, fuse carrier, or disconnecting blade. The fuseholder or fuse carrier may include a conducting element (fuse link), or may act as the disconnecting blade by the inclusion of a nonfusible member. Cutout box. An enclosure designed for surface mounting and having swinging doors or covers secured directly to and telescoping with the walls of the box proper. (See Cabinet.) Damp location. See Location. Dead front. Without live parts exposed to a person on the operating side of the equipment Deenergized. Free from any electrical connection to a source of potential difference and from electrical charge; not having a potential different from that of the earth. Device. A unit of an electrical system that is intended to carry but not utilize electric energy. Dielectric heating. The heating of a nominally insulating material due to its own dielectric losses when the material is placed in a varying electric field. Disconnecting means. A device, or group of devices, or other means by which the conductors of a circuit can be disconnected from their source of supply. Disconnecting (or Isolating) switch. (Over 600 volts, nominal.) A mechanical switching device used for isolating a circuit or equipment from a source of power. Electrolytic cell line working zone. The cell line working zone is the space envelope wherein operation or maintenance is normally performed on or in the vicinity of exposed energized surfaces of electrolytic cell lines or their attachments. Electrolytic cells. A tank or vat in which electrochemical reactions are caused by applying energy for the purpose of refining or producing usable materials. Enclosed. Surrounded by a case, housing, fence, or walls that will prevent persons from accidentally contacting energized parts. Enclosure. The case or housing of apparatus, or the fence or walls surrounding an installation to prevent personnel from accidentally contacting energized parts, or to protect the equipment from physical damage. Energized. Electrically connected to a source of potential difference. Equipment. A general term including material, fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures, apparatus, and the like, used as a part of, or in connection with, an electrical installation. Equipment grounding conductor. See Grounding conductor, equipment. Explosion-proof apparatus. Apparatus enclosed in a case that is capable of withstanding an explosion of a specified gas or vapor that may occur within it and of preventing the ignition of a specified