§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(ii) A quick power disconnecting device shall be installed on each machine within easy reach of the operator.
(9) Finishing room rewinders. (i) The nipping points of all drum winders and rewinders located on the operator's side shall be guarded by either automatic or manually operated barrier guards of sufficient height to protect fully anyone working around them. The barrier guard shall be interlocked with the drive mechanism to prevent operating above jog speed without the guard in place.
A zero speed switch should be installed to prevent the guard from being raised while the roll is turning.
(ii) A nonskid surface shall be provided in front of the rewinder to prevent an employee from slipping in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(iii) Mechanical lifting devices shall be provided for placing and removing rolls from the machine.
(10) Control panels. The requirements of paragraph (k)(22) of this section shall apply.
(11) Roll-type embosser. The nipping point located on the operator's side shall be guarded by either automatic or manually operated barrier guards interlocked with the drive.
(12) Sorting and counting tables. (i) Tables shall be smooth and free from splinters, with edges and corners rounded.
(ii) Paddles shall be smooth and free from splinters.
(13) Roll splitters. The nip point and cutter knife shall be guarded by either automatic or manually operated barrier guards.
(m) Materials handling —(1) Hand trucks. No person shall be permitted to ride on a powered hand truck unless it is so designed by the manufacturer. A limit switch shall be on operating handle—30 degrees each way from a 45-degree angle up and down.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Cartons. The carton-stitching machine shall be guarded to prevent the operator from coming in contact with the stitching head.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) Unloading cars. Flag signals, derails, or other protective devices shall be used to protect men during switching operations. The blue flag policy shall be invoked according to paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section.