§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(D) When it is important to see a person's mouth ( e.g., communicating with an individual who is deaf or hard of hearing) and the conditions do not permit a facemask that is constructed of clear plastic (or includes a clear plastic window). In such situations, the employer must ensure that each employee wears an alternative to protect the employee, such as a face shield, if the conditions permit it.
(E) When employees cannot wear facemasks due to a medical necessity, medical condition, or disability as defined in the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq. ), or due to a religious belief. Exceptions must be provided for a narrow subset of persons with a disability who cannot wear a facemask or cannot safely wear a facemask, because of the disability, as defined in the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq. ), including a person who cannot independently remove the facemask. The remaining portion of the subset who cannot wear a facemask may be exempted on a case-by-case basis as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act and other applicable laws. In all such situations, the employer must ensure that any such employee wears a face shield for the protection of the employee, if their condition or disability permits it. Accommodations may also need to be made for religious beliefs consistent with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
(F) When the employer can demonstrate that the use of a facemask presents a hazard to an employee of serious injury or death ( e.g., arc flash, heat stress, interfering with the safe operation of equipment). In such situations, the employer must ensure that each employee wears an alternative to protect the employee, such as a face shield, if the conditions permit it. Any employee not wearing a facemask must remain at least 6 feet away from all other people unless the employer can demonstrate it is not feasible. The employee must resume wearing a facemask when not engaged in the activity where the facemask presents a hazard.
Note: Note to paragraph ( f )(1)( iii )( F ): With respect to paragraphs (f)(1)(iii)(D) through (F) of this section, the employer may determine that the use of face shields, without facemasks, in certain settings is not appropriate due to other infection control concerns.
