§ 1910.1017 Vinyl chloride.
(B) Past history of hepatitis;
(C) Work history and past exposure to potential hepatotoxic agents, including drugs and chemicals;
(D) Past history of blood transfusions; and
(E) Past history of hospitalizations.
(iii) A serum specimen shall be obtained and determinations made of:
(A) Total bilirubin;
(B) Alkaline phosphatase;
(C) Serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase (SGOT);
(D) Serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (SGPT); and
(E) Gamma glustamyl transpeptidase.
(2) Examinations must be provided in accordance with this paragraph at least annually.
(3) Each employee exposed to an emergency shall be afforded appropriate medical surveillance.
(4) A statement of each employee's suitability for continued exposure to vinyl chloride including use of protective equipment and respirators, shall be obtained from the examining physician promptly after any examination. A copy of the physician's statement shall be provided each employee.
(5) If any employee's health would be materially impaired by continued exposure, such employee shall be withdrawn from possible contact with vinyl chloride.
(6) Laboratory analyses for all biological specimens included in medical examination shall be performed by accredited laboratories.
(7) If the examining physician determines that alternative medical examinations to those required by paragraph (k)(1) of this section will provide at least equal assurance of detecting medical conditions pertinent to the exposure to vinyl chloride, the employer may accept such alternative examinations as meeting the requirements of paragraph (k)(1) of this section, if the employer obtains a statement from the examining physician setting forth the alternative examinations and the rationale for substitution. This statement shall be available upon request for examination and copying to authorized representatives of the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(l) Communication of hazards —(1) Hazard communication—general. (i) Chemical manufacturers, importers, distributors and employers shall comply with all requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200) for vinyl chloride and polyvinyl chloride.
(ii) In classifying the hazards of vinyl chloride at least the following hazards are to be addressed: Cancer; central nervous system effects; liver effects; blood effects; and flammability.
