§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(v) Ladders, platforms, and aerial devices may not be brought closer to an energized part than the distances listed in Table R-5, Table R-6, Table R-7, and Table R-8.
(vi) Line-clearance tree trimming may not be performed when adverse weather conditions make the work hazardous in spite of the work practices required by this section. Each employee performing line-clearance tree trimming in the aftermath of a storm or under similar emergency conditions shall be trained in the special hazards related to this type of work.
Note: Note to paragraph ( r )(1)( vi ): Thunderstorms in the immediate vicinity, high winds, snow storms, and ice storms are examples of adverse weather conditions that are presumed to make line-clearance tree trimming too hazardous to perform safely.
(2) Brush chippers. (i) Brush chippers shall be equipped with a locking device in the ignition system.
(ii) Access panels for maintenance and adjustment of the chipper blades and associated drive train shall be in place and secure during operation of the equipment.
(iii) Brush chippers not equipped with a mechanical infeed system shall be equipped with an infeed hopper of length sufficient to prevent employees from contacting the blades or knives of the machine during operation.
(iv) Trailer chippers detached from trucks shall be chocked or otherwise secured.
(v) Each employee in the immediate area of an operating chipper feed table shall wear personal protective equipment as required by Subpart I of this part.
(3) Sprayers and related equipment. (i) Walking and working surfaces of sprayers and related equipment shall be covered with slip-resistant material. If slipping hazards cannot be eliminated, slip-resistant footwear or handrails and stair rails meeting the requirements of subpart D of this part may be used instead of slip-resistant material.
(ii) Equipment on which employees stand to spray while the vehicle is in motion shall be equipped with guardrails around the working area. The guardrail shall be constructed in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(4) Stump cutters. (i) Stump cutters shall be equipped with enclosures or guards to protect employees.
(ii) Each employee in the immediate area of stump grinding operations (including the stump cutter operator) shall wear personal protective equipment as required by subpart I of this part.
