§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(7) Fire protection. (i) Not more than 2,500 tons (2270 tonnes) of bagged ammonium nitrate shall be stored in a building or structure not equipped with an automatic sprinkler system. Sprinkler systems shall be of the approved type and installed in accordance with § 1910.159.
(ii)( a ) Suitable fire control devices such as small hose or portable fire extinguishers shall be provided throughout the warehouse and in the loading and unloading areas. Suitable fire control devices shall comply with the requirements of §§ 1910.157 and 1910.158.
( b ) Water supplies and fire hydrants shall be available in accordance with recognized good practices.
(j) Small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and small arms propellants —(1) Scope. This paragraph does not apply to in-process storage and intraplant transportation during manufacture of small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and smokeless propellants.
(2) Small arms ammunition. (i) No quantity limitations are imposed on the storage of small arms ammunition in warehouses, retail stores, and other general occupancy facilities, except those imposed by limitations of storage facilities.
(ii) Small arms ammunition shall be separated from flammable liquids, flammable solids as classified in 49 CFR part 172, and from oxidizing materials, by a fire-resistive wall of 1-hour rating or by a distance of 25 feet.
(iii) Small arms ammunition shall not be stored together with Class A or Class B explosives unless the storage facility is adequate for this latter storage.
(3) Smokeless propellants. (i) All smokeless propellants shall be stored in shipping containers specified in 49 CFR 173.93 for smokeless propellants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Commercial stocks of smokeless propellants over 20 pounds and not more than 100 pounds shall be stored in portable wooden boxes having walls of at least 1 inch nominal thickness.
(iv) Commercial stocks in quantities not to exceed 750 pounds shall be stored in nonportable storage cabinets having wooden walls of at least 1 inch nominal thickness. Not more than 400 pounds shall be permitted in any one cabinet.
(v) Quantities in excess of 750 pounds shall be stored in magazines in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
