§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(e) Log breakdown and related machinery and facilities —(1) Log carriages and carriage runways —(i) Bumpers. A substantial stop or bumper with adequate shock-absorptive qualities shall be installed at each end of the carriage runway.
(ii) Footing. Rider-type carriages shall be floored to provide secure footing and a firm working platform for the block setter.
(iii) Sheave housing. Sheaves on rope-driven carriages shall be guarded at floor line with substantial housings.
(iv) Carriage control. A positive means shall be provided to prevent unintended movement of the carriage. This may involve a control locking device, a carriage tie-down, or both.
(v) Barriers and warning signs. A barrier shall be provided to prevent employees from entering the space necessary for travel of the carriage, with headblocks fully receded, for the full length and extreme ends of carriage runways. Warning signs shall be posted at possible entry points to this area.
(vi) Overhead clearance. For a rider-type carriage adequate overhead clear space above the carriage deck shall be provided for the full carriage runway length.
(vii) Sweeping devices. Carriage track sweeping devices shall be used to keep track rails clear of debris.
(viii) Dogs. Dogging devices shall be adequate to secure logs, cants, or boards, during sawing operations.
(2) Head saws —(i) Band head saws. ( a ) Band head saws shall not be operated at speeds in excess of those recommended by the manufacturer
( b ) Band head saws shall be thoroughly inspected for cracks, splits, broken teeth, and other defects. A bandsaw with a crack greater than one-tenth the width of the saw shall not be placed in service until width of saw is reduced to eliminate crack, until cracked section is removed, or crack development is stopped.
( c ) Provisions shall be made for alerting and warning employees before starting band head saws, and measures shall be taken to insure that all persons are in the clear.
(ii) Bandsaw wheels. ( a ) No bandsaw wheel shall be run at a peripheral speed in excess of that recommended by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's recommended maximum speed shall be stamped in plainly legible figures on some portion of the wheel.
