§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
(iii) Stamped to indicate complete die weight when handling equipment may become overloaded.
(7) Die fastening. Provision shall be made in both the upper and lower shoes for securely mounting the die to the bolster and slide. Where clamp caps or setscrews are used in conjunction with punch stems, additional means of securing the upper shoe to the slide shall be used.
(8) Die handling. Handling equipment attach points shall be provided on all dies requiring mechanical handling.
(9) Diesetting. (i) The employer shall establish a diesetting procedure that will insure compliance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) The employer shall provide spring loaded turnover bars, for presses designed to accept such turnover bars.
(iii) The employer shall provide die stops or other means to prevent losing control of the die while setting or removing dies in presses which are inclined.
(iv) The employer shall provide and enforce the use of safety blocks for use whenever dies are being adjusted or repaired in the press.
(v) The employer shall provide brushes, swabs, lubricating rolls, and automatic or manual pressure guns so that operators and diesetters shall not be required to reach into the point of operation or other hazard areas to lubricate material, punches or dies.
(e) Inspection, maintenance, and modification of presses —(1) Inspection and maintenance records. The employer shall establish and follow an inspection program having a general component and a directed component.
(i) Under the general component of the inspection program, the employer shall:
(A) Conduct periodic and regular inspections of each power press to ensure that all of its parts, auxiliary equipment, and safeguards, including the clutch/brake mechanism, antirepeat feature, and single-stroke mechanism, are in a safe operating condition and adjustment;
(B) Perform and complete necessary maintenance or repair, or both, before operating the press; and
(C) Maintain a certification record of each inspection, and each maintenance and repair task performed, under the general component of the inspection program that includes the date of the inspection, maintenance, or repair work, the signature of the person who performed the inspection, maintenance, or repair work, and the serial number, or other identifier, of the power press inspected, maintained, and repaired.
(ii) Under the directed component of the inspection program, the employer shall:
