§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(3) Periodic inspection. (i) Complete inspections of the derrick shall be performed at intervals as generally defined in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)( b ) of this section depending upon its activity, severity of service, and environment, or as specifically indicated below. These inspections shall include the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and in addition, items such as the following. Deficiencies shall be carefully examined and a determination made as to whether they constitute a safety hazard:
( a ) Structural members for deformations, cracks, and corrosion.
( b ) Bolts or rivets for tightness.
( c ) Parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, sheaves, drums, rollers, locking and clamping devices, for wear, cracks, and distortion.
( d ) Gudgeon pin for cracks, wear, and distortion each time the derrick is to be erected.
( e ) Powerplants for proper performance and compliance with applicable safety requirements.
( f ) Hooks.
(ii) Foundation or supports shall be inspected for continued ability to sustain the imposed loads.
(4) Derricks not in regular use. (i) A derrick which has been idle for a period of 1 month or more, but less than 6 months, shall be given an inspection conforming with requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and paragraph (g)(3) of this section before placing in service.
(ii) A derrick which has been idle for a period of over 6 months shall be given a complete inspection conforming with requirements of paragraphs (d) (2) and (3) of this section and paragraph (g)(3) of this section before placing in service.
(iii) Standby derricks shall be inspected at least semiannually in accordance with requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(e) Testing —(1) Operational tests. Prior to initial use all new and altered derricks shall be tested to insure compliance with this section including the following functions:
(i) Load hoisting and lowering.
(ii) Boom up and down.
(iii) Swing.
(iv) Operation of clutches and brakes of hoist.
(2) Anchorages. All anchorages shall be approved by the appointed person. Rock and hairpin anchorages may require special testing.
