§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
( d ) Two hand controls shall be fixed in position so that only a supervisor or safety engineer is capable of relocating the controls.
(viii) The two hand trip device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( e ) of this section.
( a ) When used in press operations requiring more than one operator, separate two hand trips shall be provided for each operator, and shall be designed to require concurrent application of all operators' to activate the slide.
( b ) Each two hand trip shall meet the construction requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
( c ) The safety distance (D m ) between the two hand trip and the point of operation shall be greater than the distance determined by the following formula:
D m = 63 inches/second x T m ;
( d ) Two hand trips shall be fixed in position so that only a supervisor or safety engineer is capable of relocating the controls.
(4) Hand feeding tools. Hand feeding tools are intended for placing and removing materials in and from the press. Hand feeding tools are not a point of operation guard or protection device and shall not be used in lieu of the "guards" or devices required in this section.
(5) Additional requirements for safe-guarding. Where the operator feeds or removes parts by placing one or both hands in the point of operation, and a two hand control, presence sensing device, Type B gate or movable barrier (on a part revolution clutch) is used for safeguarding:
(i) The employer shall use a control system and a brake monitor which comply with paragraphs (b) (13) and (14) of this section;
(ii) The exception in paragraph (b)(7)(v)( d ) of this section for two hand controls manufactured and installed before August 31, 1971 is not applicable under this paragraph (c)(5);
(iii) The control of air clutch machines shall be designed to prevent a significant increase in the normal stopping time due to a failure within the operating valve mechanism, and to inhibit further operation if such failure does occur, where a part revolution clutch is employed. The exception in paragraph (b)(7)(xi) of this section for controls manufactured and installed before August 31, 1971, is not applicable under this paragraph (c)(5).
