§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
(B) The employer shall ensure that employees who are required to shower pursuant to the provisions contained herein do not leave the workplace wearing any protective clothing or equipment worn during the work shift.
(ii) Where dermal exposure to MDA occurs, the employer shall ensure that materials spilled or deposited on the skin are removed as soon as possible by methods which do not facilitate the dermal absorption of MDA.
(3) Lunch facilities —(i) Availability and construction. (A) Whenever food or beverages are consumed at the worksite and employees are exposed to MDA at or above the PEL or are subject to dermal exposure to MDA the employer shall provide readily accessible lunch areas.
(B) Lunch areas located within the workplace and in areas where there is the potential for airborne exposure to MDA at or above the PEL shall have a positive pressure, temperature controlled, filtered air supply.
(C) Lunch areas may not be located in areas within the workplace where the potential for dermal exposure to MDA exists.
(ii) The employer shall ensure that employees who have been subjected to dermal exposure to MDA or who have been exposed to MDA above the PEL wash their hands and faces with soap and water prior to eating, drinking, smoking, or applying cosmetics.
(iii) The employer shall ensure that employees exposed to MDA do not enter lunch facilities with MDA-contaminated protective work clothing or equipment.
(k) Communication of hazards —(1) Hazard communication—general.
(i) Chemical manufacturers, importers, distributors and employers shall comply with all requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200) for MDA.
(ii) In classifying the hazards of MDA at least the following hazards are to be addressed: Cancer; liver effects; and skin sensitization.
(iii) Employers shall include MDA in the hazard communication program established to comply with the HCS (§ 1910.1200). Employers shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of MDA and to safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the requirements of HCS and paragraph (k)(4) of this section.
(2) Signs and labels —(i) Signs. (A) The employer shall post and maintain legible signs demarcating regulated areas and entrances or access ways to regulated areas that bear the following legend:
