§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( e ) When tank vent piping is manifolded, pipe sizes shall be such as to discharge, within the pressure limitations of the system, the vapors they may be required to handle when manifolded tanks are filled simultaneously.
(v) Tank openings other than vents. ( a ) Connections for all tank openings shall be vapor or liquid tight.
( b ) Openings for manual gaging, if independent of the fill pipe, shall be provided with a liquid-tight cap or cover. If inside a building, each such opening shall be protected against liquid overflow and possible vapor release by means of a spring loaded check valve or other approved device.
( c ) Fill and discharge lines shall enter tanks only through the top. Fill lines shall be sloped toward the tank.
( d ) For Category 2 flammable liquids and Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), other than crude oils, gasolines, and asphalts, the fill pipe shall be so designed and installed as to minimize the possibility of generating static electricity by terminating within 6 inches of the bottom of the tank.
( e ) Filling and emptying connections which are made and broken shall be located outside of buildings at a location free from any source of ignition and not less than 5 feet away from any building opening. Such connection shall be closed and liquidtight when not in use. The connection shall be properly identified.
(4) Installation of tanks inside of buildings —(i) Location. Tanks shall not be permitted inside of buildings except as provided in paragraphs (e), (g), (h), or (i) of this section.
(ii) Vents. Vents for tanks inside of buildings shall be as provided in subparagraphs (2) (iv), (v), (vi)( b ), and (3)(iv) of this paragraph, except that emergency venting by the use of weak roof seams on tanks shall not be permitted. Vents shall discharge vapors outside the buildings.
(iii) Vent piping. Vent piping shall be constructed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(iv) Tank openings other than vents. ( a ) Connections for all tank openings shall be vapor or liquidtight. Vents are covered in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
