§ 1910.262 Textiles.
(9) Steam pipes. All pipes carrying steam or hot water for process or servicing machinery, when exposed to contact and located within seven feet of the floor or working platform shall be covered with a heat-insulating material, or otherwise properly guarded.
(d) Openers and pickers —(1) Beater guards. When any opening or picker machinery is equipped with a beater, such beater shall be provided with metal covers which will prevent contact with the beater. Such covers shall be provided with an interlock which will prevent the cover from being raised while the machine is in motion and prevent the operation of the machine while the cover is open.
(2) Cleanout holes. Cleanout holes within reaching distance of the fan or picker beater shall have their covers securely fastened and they shall not be opened while the machine is in motion.
(3) Feed rolls. The feed rolls on all opening and picking machinery shall be covered with a guard designed to prevent the operator from reaching the nip while the machinery is in operation.
(4) Removal of foreign ferrous material. All textile opener lines shall be equipped with magnetic separators, tramp iron separators, or other means for the removal of foreign ferrous material.
(e) Cotton cards —(1) Enclosures. Cylinder and lickerins shall be completely protected and the doffers should be enclosed.
(2) Enclosure fastenings. The enclosures or covers shall be kept in place while the machine is in operation, except when stripping or grinding.
(3) Stripping rolls. On operations calling for flat strippings which are allowed to fall on the doffer cover, where such strippings are removed by hand, the doffer cover shall be kept closed and securely fastened to prevent the opening of the cover while the machine is in operation. When it becomes necessary to clean the cards while they are in motion, a long-handled brush or dust mop shall be used.
(f) Garnett machines —(1) Lickerin. Garnett lickerins shall be enclosed.
(2) Fancy rolls. Garnett fancy rolls shall be enclosed by covers. These shall be installed in a way that keeps worker rolls reasonably accessible for removal or adjustment.
(3) Underside of machine. The underside of the garnett shall be guarded by a screen mesh or other form of enclosure to prevent access.
