§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(3) Sprayers and related equipment. (i) Walking and working surfaces of sprayers and related equipment shall be covered with slip-resistant material. If slipping hazards cannot be eliminated, slip-resistant footwear or handrails and stair rails meeting the requirements of subpart D of this part may be used instead of slip-resistant material.
(ii) Equipment on which employees stand to spray while the vehicle is in motion shall be equipped with guardrails around the working area. The guardrail shall be constructed in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(4) Stump cutters. (i) Stump cutters shall be equipped with enclosures or guards to protect employees.
(ii) Each employee in the immediate area of stump grinding operations (including the stump cutter operator) shall wear personal protective equipment as required by subpart I of this part.
(5) Gasoline-engine power saws. Gasoline-engine power saw operations shall meet the requirements of § 1910.266(e) and the following:
(i) Each power saw weighing more than 6.8 kilograms (15 pounds, service weight) that is used in trees shall be supported by a separate line, except when work is performed from an aerial lift and except during topping or removing operations where no supporting limb will be available.
(ii) Each power saw shall be equipped with a control that will return the saw to idling speed when released.
(iii) Each power saw shall be equipped with a clutch and shall be so adjusted that the clutch will not engage the chain drive at idling speed.
(iv) A power saw shall be started on the ground or where it is otherwise firmly supported. Drop starting of saws over 6.8 kilograms (15 pounds), other than chain saws, is permitted outside of the bucket of an aerial lift only if the area below the lift is clear of personnel.
Note: Note to paragraph ( r )(5)( iv ): Paragraph (e)(2)(vi) of § 1910.266 prohibits drop starting of chain saws.
(v) A power saw engine may be started and operated only when all employees other than the operator are clear of the saw.
(vi) A power saw may not be running when the saw is being carried up into a tree by an employee.
