§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall be not less than three-sixteenths of an inch. (3) Mounting containers. (i) A suitable "stop" or "stops" shall be mounted on the vehicle or on the container in such a way that the container shall not be dislodged from its mounting due to the vehicle coming to a sudden stop. Back slippage shall also be prevented by proper methods. (ii) A suitable "hold down" device shall be provided which will anchor the container to the vehicle at one or more places on each side of the container. (iii) When containers are mounted on four-wheel trailers, care shall be taken to insure that the weight is distributed evenly over both axles. (iv) When the cradle and the tank are not welded together suitable material shall be used between them to eliminate metal-to-metal friction. (4) Container appurtenances. (i) All containers shall be equipped with a fixed liquid-level gage. (ii) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped with a pressure gage having a dial graduated from 0-400 p.s.i. (iii) The filling connection shall be fitted with combination back-pressure check valve and excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves; or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with either an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess flow valve. (iv) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped for spray loading or with an approved vapor return valve. (v) All vapor and liquid connections except safety-relief valves and those specifically exempted by paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section shall be equipped with approved excess-flow valves or may be fitted with quick-closing internal valves which, except during operating periods, shall remain closed. (vi) Fittings shall be adequately protected from damage by a metal box or cylinder with open top securely fastened to the container or by rigid guards, well braced, welded to the container on both sides of the fittings or by a metal dome. If a metal dome is used, the relief valve shall be properly vented through the dome. (vii) If a liquid withdrawal line is installed in the bottom of a container, the connections thereto, including hose, shall not be lower than the lowest horizontal edge of the vehicle axle. (viii) Provision shall