§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(B) Other Regulated Waste Containment —( 1 ) Regulated waste shall be placed in containers which are:
( i ) Closable;
( ii ) Constructed to contain all contents and prevent leakage of fluids during handling, storage, transport or shipping;
( iii ) Labeled or color-coded in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) this standard; and
( iv ) Closed prior to removal to prevent spillage or protrusion of contents during handling, storage, transport, or shipping.
( 2 ) If outside contamination of the regulated waste container occurs, it shall be placed in a second container. The second container shall be:
( i ) Closable;
( ii ) Constructed to contain all contents and prevent leakage of fluids during handling, storage, transport or shipping;
( iii ) Labeled or color-coded in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this standard; and
( iv ) Closed prior to removal to prevent spillage or protrusion of contents during handling, storage, transport, or shipping.
(C) Disposal of all regulated waste shall be in accordance with applicable regulations of the United States, States and Territories, and political subdivisions of States and Territories.
(iv) Laundry. (A) Contaminated laundry shall be handled as little as possible with a minimum of agitation. ( 1 ) Contaminated laundry shall be bagged or containerized at the location where it was used and shall not be sorted or rinsed in the location of use.
( 2 ) Contaminated laundry shall be placed and transported in bags or containers labeled or color-coded in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this standard. When a facility utilizes Universal Precautions in the handling of all soiled laundry, alternative labeling or color-coding is sufficient if it permits all employees to recognize the containers as requiring compliance with Universal Precautions.
( 3 ) Whenever contaminated laundry is wet and presents a reasonable likelihood of soak-through of or leakage from the bag or container, the laundry shall be placed and transported in bags or containers which prevent soak-through and/or leakage of fluids to the exterior.
(B) The employer shall ensure that employees who have contact with contaminated laundry wear protective gloves and other appropriate personal protective equipment.
