§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(d) Definitions. Anemometer means an instrument for measuring wind velocity. Angulated roping means a suspension method where the upper point of suspension is inboard from the attachments on the suspended unit, thus causing the suspended unit to bear against the face of the building. Building face roller means a rotating cylindrical member designed to ride on the face of the building wall to prevent the platform from abrading the face of the building and to assist in stabilizing the platform. Building maintenance means operations such as window cleaning, caulking, metal polishing, reglazing, and general maintenance on building surfaces. Cable means a conductor, or group of conductors, enclosed in a weatherproof sheath, that may be used to supply electrical power and/or control current for equipment or to provide voice communication circuits. Carriage means a wheeled vehicle used for the horizontal movement and support of other equipment. Certification means a written, signed and dated statement confirming the performance of a requirement of this section. Combination cable means a cable having both steel structural members capable of supporting the platform, and copper or other electrical conductors insulated from each other and the structural members by nonconductive barriers. Competent person means a person who, because of training and experience, is capable of identifying hazardous or dangerous conditions in powered platform installations and of training employees to identify such conditions. Continuous pressure means the need for constant manual actuation for a control to function. Control means a mechanism used to regulate or guide the operation of the equipment. Davit means a device, used singly or in pairs, for suspending a powered platform from work, storage and rigging locations on the building being serviced. Unlike outriggers, a davit reacts its operating load into a single roof socket or carriage attachment. Equivalent means alternative designs, materials or methods which the employer can demonstrate will provide an equal or greater degree of safety for employees than the methods, materials or designs specified in the standard. Ground rigging means a method of suspending a working platform starting from a safe surface to a point of suspension above the safe surface. Ground rigged davit means a davit which cannot be used to raise a suspended working platform above the building face being serviced. Guide button means a building face anchor designed to engage a guide track mounted on a platform. Guide roller means a rotating cylindrical member, operating separately or as part of a guide assembly, designed to provide continuous engagement between the platform and the building guides or guideways. Guide shoe