§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(11) Elevators. (i) Elevators shall be constructed in accordance with American National Standard A17.1—1965.
(ii) Elevators shall be equipped with gas masks for the maximum number of passengers.
(iii) Elevators shall be equipped with an alarm system to advise of failure.
(12) Blowoff valves and piping. (i) The blowoff valve of a digester shall be arranged so as to be operated from another room, remote from safety valves.
(ii) Through bolts instead of cap bolts shall be used on all digester pipings.
(iii) Heavy duty pipe, valves, and fittings shall be used between the digester and blow pit. These valves, fittings, and pipes shall be inspected at least semiannually to determine the degree of deterioration.
(iv) Digester blow valves shall be pinned or locked in closed position throughout the entire cooking period.
(13) Blow pits and blow tanks. (i) Blow-pit openings preferably shall be on the side of the pit instead of on the top. Openings shall be as small as possible when located on top, and shall be protected in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(ii) A specially constructed ladder shall be used for access to blow pits, to be constructed so that the door of the blow pit cannot be closed when the ladder is in place; other means shall be provided to prevent the closing of the pit door when anyone is in the pit.
(iii) A signaling device shall be installed in the digester and blow-pit rooms and chip bins to be operated as a warning before and while digesters are being blown.
(iv) Blow-pit hoops shall be maintained in a safe condition.
(14) Blowing digester. (i) Blowoff valves shall be opened slowly.
(ii) After the digester has started to be blown, the blowoff valve shall be left open, and the hand plate shall not be removed until the digester cook signals the blow-pit man that the blow is completed. Whenever it becomes necessary to remove the hand plate to clear stock, operators shall wear eye protection equipment and protective clothing to guard against burns from hot stock.
(iii) Means shall be provided whereby the digester cook shall signal the man in the chip bin before starting to load the digester.
