§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(4) Trimmer saws —(i) Maximum speed. Trimmer saws shall not be run at peripheral speeds in excess of those recommended by the manufacturer.
(ii) Guards. ( a ) Trimmer saws shall be guarded in front by adequate baffles to protect against flying debris and they shall be securely bolted to a substantial frame. These guards for a series of saws shall be set as close to the top of the trimmer table as is practical.
( b ) The end saws on trimmer shall be guarded.
( c ) The rear of trimmer saws shall have a guard the full width of the saws and as much wider as practical.
(iii) Safety stops. Automatic trimmer saws shall be provided with safety stops or hangers to prevent saws from dropping on table.
(5) Edgers —(i) Location. ( a ) Where vertical arbor edger saws are located ahead of the main saw, they shall be so guarded that an employee cannot contact any part of the edger saw from his normal position.
( b ) Edgers shall not be located in the main roll case behind the head saws.
(ii) Guards. ( a ) The top and the openings in end and side frames of edgers shall be adequately guarded and gears and chains shall be fully housed. Guards may be hinged or otherwise arranged to permit oiling and the removal of saws.
( b ) All edgers shall be equipped with pressure feed rolls.
( c ) Pressure feed rolls on edgers shall be guarded against accidental contact.
(iii) Antikickback devices. ( a ) Edgers shall be provided with safety fingers or other approved methods of preventing kickbacks or guarding against them. A barricade in line with the edger, if properly fenced off, may be used if safety fingers are not feasible to install.
( b ) A controlling device shall be installed and located so that the operator can stop the feed mechanism without releasing the tension of the pressure rolls.
(iv) Operating speed of live rolls. Live rolls and tailing devices in back of edger shall operate at a speed not less than the speed of the edger feed rolls.
(6) Planers —(i) Guards. ( a ) All cutting heads shall be guarded.
