§ 1910.1017 Vinyl chloride.
(ii) In accordance with 49 CFR Parts 170-189, with the additional legend applied near the label or placard:
(6) No statement shall appear on or near any required sign, label, or instruction which contradicts or detracts from the effect of any required warning, information, or instruction.
(m) Records. (1) All records maintained in accordance with this section shall include the name of each employee where relevant.
(2) Records of required monitoring and measuring and medical records shall be provided upon request to employees, designated representatives, and the Assistant Secretary in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020 (a) through (e) and (g) through (i). These records shall be provided upon request to the Director. Authorized personnel rosters shall also be provided upon request to the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(i) Monitoring and measuring records shall:
(A) State the date of such monitoring and measuring and the concentrations determined and identify the instruments and methods used;
(B) Include any additional information necessary to determine individual employee exposures where such exposures are determined by means other than individual monitoring of employees; and
(C) Be maintained for not less than 30 years.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Medical records shall be maintained for the duration of the employment of each employee plus 20 years, or 30 years, whichever is longer.
(n) The employer must, within 15 working days after the receipt of the results of any monitoring performed under this section, notify each affected employee of these results and the steps being taken to reduce exposures within the permissible exposure limit either individually in writing or by posting the results in an appropriate location that is accessible to affected employees.
Editorial Note: For Federal Register citations affecting § 1910.1017, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at www.govinfo.gov.