§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(iv) All air filters are maintained and replaced as necessary to ensure the proper function and performance of the HVAC system(s); and
(v) All intake ports that provide outside air to the HVAC system(s) are cleaned, maintained, and cleared of any debris that may affect the function and performance of the HVAC system(s).
(2) Where the employer has an existing AIIR, the employer must maintain and operate it in accordance with its design and construction criteria.
Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( k ): This section does not require installation of new HVAC systems or AIIRs to replace or augment functioning systems.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( k ): In addition to the requirements for existing HVAC systems and AIIRs, all employers should also consider other measures to improve ventilation in accordance with "CDC's Ventilation Guidance," (available at www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/ventilation.html ) ( e.g., opening windows and doors). This could include maximizing ventilation in buildings without HVAC systems or in vehicles.
(l) Health screening and medical management —(1) Screening. (i) The employer must screen each employee before each work day and each shift. Screening may be conducted by asking employees to self-monitor before reporting to work or may be conducted in-person by the employer.
(ii) If a COVID-19 test is required by the employer for screening purposes, the employer must provide the test to each employee at no cost to the employee.
(2) Employee notification to employer of COVID-19 illness or symptoms. The employer must require each employee to promptly notify the employer when the employee:
(i) Is COVID-19 positive ( i.e., confirmed positive test for, or has been diagnosed by a licensed healthcare provider with, COVID-19); or
(ii) Has been told by a licensed healthcare provider that they are suspected to have COVID-19; or
(iii) Is experiencing recent loss of taste and/or smell with no other explanation; or
(iv) Is experiencing both fever (>=100.4 degrees F) and new unexplained cough associated with shortness of breath.
