§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(ii) Joints in brass or copper pipe shall be welded, brazed, threaded, or flanged. If of the socket type, they shall be brazed with silver-brazing alloy or similar high melting point (not less than 800 degrees F (427 degrees C)) filler metal. (iii) Joints in seamless copper, brass, or stainless steel tubing shall be approved gas tubing fittings or the joints shall be brazed. If of the socket type, they shall be brazed with silver-brazing alloy or similar high melting point (not less than 800 degrees F (427 degrees C)) filler metal. (3) Installation. (i) Distribution lines shall be installed and maintained in a safe operating condition. (ii) All piping shall be run as directly as practicable, protected against physical damage, proper allowance being made for expansion and contraction, jarring and vibration. Pipe laid underground in earth shall be located below the frost line and protected against corrosion. After assembly, piping shall be thoroughly blown out with air, nitrogen, or carbon dioxide to remove foreign materials. For oxygen piping, only oil-free air, oil-free nitrogen, or oil-free carbon dioxide shall be used. (iii) Only piping which has been welded or brazed shall be installed in tunnels, trenches or ducts. Shutoff valves shall be located outside such conduits. Oxygen piping may be placed in the same tunnel, trench or duct with fuel-gas pipelines, provided there is good natural or forced ventilation. (iv) Low points in piping carrying moist gas shall be drained into drip pots constructed so as to permit pumping or draining out the condensate at necessary intervals. Drain valves shall be installed for this purpose having outlets normally closed with screw caps or plugs. No open end valves or petcocks shall be used, except that in drips located out of doors, underground, and not readily accessible, valves may be used at such points if they are equipped with means to secure them in the closed position. Pipes leading to the surface of the ground shall be cased or jacketed where necessary to prevent loosening or breaking. (v) Gas cocks or valves shall be provided for all buildings at points where they will be readily accessible for shutting off the gas supply to these buildings in any emergency. There shall also be provided a shutoff valve in the discharge line from the