§ 1910.184 Slings.
(b) Definitions. Angle of loading is the inclination of a leg or branch of a sling measured from the horizontal or vertical plane as shown in Fig. N-184-5; provided that an angle of loading of five degrees or less from the vertical may be considered a vertical angle of loading. Basket hitch is a sling configuration whereby the sling is passed under the load and has both ends, end attachments, eyes or handles on the hook or a single master link. Braided wire rope is a wire rope formed by plaiting component wire ropes. Bridle wire rope sling is a sling composed of multiple wire rope legs with the top ends gathered in a fitting that goes over the lifting hook. Cable laid endless sling-mechanical joint is a wire rope sling made endless by joining the ends of a single length of cable laid rope with one or more metallic fittings. Cable laid grommet-hand tucked is an endless wire rope sling made from one length of rope wrapped six times around a core formed by hand tucking the ends of the rope inside the six wraps. Cable laid rope is a wire rope composed of six wire ropes wrapped around a fiber or wire rope core. Cable laid rope sling-mechanical joint is a wire rope sling made from a cable laid rope with eyes fabricated by pressing or swaging one or more metal sleeves over the rope junction. Choker hitch is a sling configuration with one end of the sling passing under the load and through an end attachment, handle or eye on the other end of the sling. Coating is an elastomer or other suitable material applied to a sling or to a sling component to impart desirable properties. Cross rod is a wire used to join spirals of metal mesh to form a complete fabric. (See Fig. N-184-2.) Designated means selected or assigned by the employer or the employer's representative as being qualified to perform specific duties. Equivalent entity is a person or organization (including an employer) which, by possession of equipment, technical knowledge and skills, can perform with equal competence the same repairs and tests as the person or organization with which it is equated. Fabric (metal mesh) is the flexible portion of a metal mesh sling consisting of a series of transverse coils and cross rods. Female handle (choker) is a handle with a handle eye and a slot of such dimension as to permit passage of a male handle thereby allowing the use of a metal mesh sling in a choker hitch. (See Fig.