§ 1910.504 Mini Respiratory Protection Program.
(iv) How to perform a user seal check as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(v) How to recognize medical signs and symptoms that may limit or prevent the effective use of respirators and what to do if the employee experiences signs and symptoms.
(2) User seal check. (i) The employer must ensure that each employee who uses a tight-fitting respirator performs a user seal check to ensure that the respirator is properly seated to the face each time the respirator is put on. Acceptable methods of user seal checks include:
(A) Positive pressure user seal check ( i.e., blow air out). Once you have conducted proper hand hygiene and properly donned the respirator, place your hands over the facepiece, covering as much surface area as possible. Exhale gently into the facepiece. The face fit is considered satisfactory if a slight positive pressure is being built up inside the facepiece without any evidence of outward leakage of air at the seal. Examples of evidence that it is leaking could be the feeling of air movement on your face along the seal of the facepiece, fogging of your glasses, or a lack of pressure being built up inside the facepiece. If the particulate respirator has an exhalation valve, then performing a positive pressure check may not be possible unless the user can cover the exhalation valve. In such cases, a negative pressure check must be performed.
(B) Negative pressure user seal check ( i.e., suck air in). Once you have conducted proper hand hygiene and properly donned the respirator, cover the filter surface with your hands as much as possible and then inhale. The facepiece should collapse on your face and you should not feel air passing between your face and the facepiece.
(ii) The employer must ensure that each employee corrects any problems discovered during the user seal check. In the case of either type of user seal check (positive or negative), if air leaks around the nose, use both hands to readjust how the respirator sits on your face or adjust the nosepiece, if applicable. Readjust the straps along the sides of your head until a proper seal is achieved.
