§ 1910.103 Hydrogen.
( d ) A low temperature shutoff switch shall be provided in the vaporizer discharge piping to prevent flow of liquefied hydrogen in the event of the loss of the heat source.
(ix) Electrical systems. ( a ) Electrical wiring and equipment located within 3 feet of a point where connections are regularly made and disconnected, shall be in accordance with subpart S of this part, for Class I, Group B, Division 1 locations.
( b ) Except as provided in ( a ) of this subdivision, electrical wiring, and equipment located within 25 feet of a point where connections are regularly made and disconnected or within 25 feet of a liquid hydrogen storage container, shall be in accordance with subpart S of this part, for Class I, Group B, Division 2 locations. When equipment approved for class I, group B atmospheres is not commercially available, the equipment may be—
( 1 ) Purged or ventilated in accordance with NFPA No. 496-1967, Standard for Purged Enclosures for Electrical Equipment in Hazardous Locations,
( 2 ) Intrinsically safe, or
( 3 ) Approved for Class I, Group C atmospheres. This requirement does not apply to electrical equipment which is installed on mobile supply trucks or tank cars from which the storage container is filled.
(x) Bonding and grounding. The liquefied hydrogen container and associated piping shall be electrically bonded and grounded.
(2) Location of liquefied hydrogen storage —(i) General requirements. ( a ) The storage containers shall be located so that they are readily accessible to mobile supply equipment at ground level and to authorized personnel.
( b ) The containers shall not be exposed by electric power lines, flammable liquid lines, flammable gas lines, or lines carrying oxidizing materials.
( c ) When locating liquified hydrogen storage containers near above-ground flammable liquid storage or liquid oxygen storage, it is advisable to locate the liquefied hydrogen container on ground higher than flammable liquid storage or liquid oxygen storage.
