§ 1910.1051 1,3-Butadiene.
(2) Program administration. (i) The employer shall ensure that the health questionnaire, physical examination and medical procedures are provided without cost to the employee, without loss of pay, and at a reasonable time and place.
(ii) Physical examinations, health questionnaires, and medical procedures shall be performed or administered by a physician or other licensed health care professional.
(iii) Laboratory tests shall be conducted by an accredited laboratory.
(3) Frequency of medical screening activities. The employer shall make medical screening available on the following schedule:
(i) For each employee covered under paragraphs (j)(1) (i)-(ii) of this section, a health questionnaire and complete blood count with differential and platelet count (CBC) every year, and a physical examination as specified below:
(A) An initial physical examination that meets the requirements of this rule, if twelve months or more have elapsed since the last physical examination conducted as part of a medical screening program for BD exposure;
(B) Before assumption of duties by the employee in a job with BD exposure;
(C) Every 3 years after the initial physical examination;
(D) At the discretion of the physician or other licensed health care professional reviewing the annual health questionnaire and CBC;
(E) At the time of employee reassignment to an area where exposure to BD is below the action level, if the employee's past exposure history does not meet the criteria of paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section for continued coverage in the screening and surveillance program, and if twelve months or more have elapsed since the last physical examination; and
(F) At termination of employment if twelve months or more have elapsed since the last physical examination.
(ii) Following an emergency situation, medical screening shall be conducted as quickly as possible, but not later than 48 hours after the exposure.
(iii) For each employee who must wear a respirator, physical ability to perform the work and use the respirator must be determined as required by 29 CFR 1910.134.
(4) Content of medical screening. (i) Medical screening for employees covered by paragraphs (j)(1) (i)-(ii) of this section shall include:
