§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(xi) Remotely and automatically controlled conveyors, and conveyors that have operating stations which are not manned or which are beyond voice and visual contact from drive areas, loading areas, transfer points, and other locations on the conveyor path not guarded by location, position, or guards shall be furnished with emergency stop buttons, pull cords, limit switches, or similar emergency stop devices. However, if the employer can demonstrate that the design, function, and operation of the conveyor do not expose an employee to hazards, an emergency stop device is not required.
(A) Emergency stop devices shall be easily identifiable in the immediate vicinity of such locations.
(B) An emergency stop device shall act directly on the control of the conveyor involved and may not depend on the stopping of any other equipment.
(C) Emergency stop devices shall be installed so that they cannot be overridden from other locations.
(xii) Where coal-handling operations may produce a combustible atmosphere from fuel sources or from flammable gases or dust, sources of ignition shall be eliminated or safely controlled to prevent ignition of the combustible atmosphere.
Note: Note to paragraph ( v )(11)( xii ): Locations that are hazardous because of the presence of combustible dust are classified as Class II hazardous locations. See § 1910.307.
(xiii) An employee may not work on or beneath overhanging coal in coal bunkers, coal silos, or coal storage areas, unless the employee is protected from all hazards posed by shifting coal.
(xiv) An employee entering a bunker or silo to dislodge the contents shall wear a body harness with lifeline attached. The lifeline shall be secured to a fixed support outside the bunker and shall be attended at all times by an employee located outside the bunker or facility.
(12) Hydroplants and equipment. Employees working on or close to water gates, valves, intakes, forebays, flumes, or other locations where increased or decreased water flow or levels may pose a significant hazard shall be warned and shall vacate such dangerous areas before water flow changes are made.
(w) Special conditions —(1) Capacitors. The following additional requirements apply to work on capacitors and on lines connected to capacitors.
