§ 1910.1044 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane.
( a ) The dates, number, duration and results of each of the samples taken, including a description of the sampling procedure used to determine representative employee exposure;
( b ) A description of the sampling and analytical methods used;
( c ) Type of respiratory protective devices worn, if any; and
( d ) Name and job classification of the employee monitored and of all other employees whose exposure the measurement is intended to represent.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least 40 years or the duration of employment plus 20 years, whichever is longer.
(2) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical surveillance required by paragraph (m) of this section.
(ii) This record shall include:
( a ) The name of the employee;
( b ) A copy of the physician's written opinion;
( c ) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to DBCP;
( d ) A copy of the information provided the physician as required by paragraphs (m)(4)(ii) through (m)(4)(iv) of this section; and
( e ) A copy of the employee's medical and work history.
(iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least 40 years or the duration of employment plus 20 years, whichever is longer.
(3) Availability. (i) The employer shall assure that all records required to be maintained by this section be made available upon request to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying.
(ii) Employee exposure monitoring records and employee medical records required by this paragraph shall be provided upon request to employees, designated representatives, and the Assistant Secretary in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020 (a) through (e) and (g) through (i).
(4) Transfer of records. (i) If the employer ceases to do business, the successor employer shall receive and retain all records required to be maintained by paragraph (p) of this section for the prescribed period.
(ii) The employer shall also comply with any additional requirements involving transfer of records set forth in 29 CFR 1910.1020(h).
(q) Observation of monitoring —(1) Employee observation. The employer shall provide affected employees, or their designated representatives, with an opportunity to observe any monitoring of employee exposure to DBCP required by this section.
