§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(ii) When loads approach the maximum rating of the derrick, it shall be ascertained that the weight of the load has been determined within plus or minus 10 percent before it is lifted.
(2) Attaching the load. (i) The hoist rope shall not be wrapped around the load.
(ii) The load shall be attached to the hook by means of slings or other suitable devices.
(3) Moving the load. (i) The load shall be well secured and properly balanced in the sling or lifting device before it is lifted more than a few inches.
(ii) Before starting to hoist, the following conditions shall be noted:
( a ) Hoist rope shall not be kinked.
( b ) Multiple part lines shall not be twisted around each other.
( c ) The hook shall be brought over the load in such a manner as to prevent swinging.
(iii) During hoisting, care shall be taken that:
( a ) There is no sudden acceleration or deceleration of the moving load.
( b ) Load does not contact any obstructions.
(iv) A derrick shall not be used for side loading except when specifically authorized by a responsible person who has determined that the various structural components will not be overstressed.
(v) No hoisting, lowering, or swinging shall be done while anyone is on the load or hook.
(vi) The operator should avoid carrying loads over people.
(vii) The operator shall test the brakes each time a load approaching the rated load is handled by raising it a few inches and applying the brakes.
(viii) Neither the load nor boom shall be lowered below the point where less than two full wraps of rope remain on their respective drums.
(ix) When rotating a derrick, sudden starts and stops shall be avoided. Rotational speed shall be such that the load does not swing out beyond the radius at which it can be controlled.
(x) Boom and hoisting rope systems shall not be twisted.
(4) Holding the load. (i) The operator shall not be allowed to leave his position at the controls while the load is suspended.
(ii) People should not be permitted to stand or pass under a load on the hook.
(iii) If the load must remain suspended for any considerable length of time, a dog, or pawl and ratchet, or other equivalent means, rather than the brake alone, shall be used to hold the load.
