§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(viii) When personal protective equipment is removed it shall be placed in an appropriately designated area or container for storage, washing, decontamination or disposal.
(ix) Gloves. Gloves shall be worn when it can be reasonably anticipated that the employee may have hand contact with blood, other potentially infectious materials, mucous membranes, and non-intact skin; when performing vascular access procedures except as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ix)(D); and when handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces.
(A) Disposable (single use) gloves such as surgical or examination gloves, shall be replaced as soon as practical when contaminated or as soon as feasible if they are torn, punctured, or when their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
(B) Disposable (single use) gloves shall not be washed or decontaminated for re-use.
(C) Utility gloves may be decontaminated for re-use if the integrity of the glove is not compromised. However, they must be discarded if they are cracked, peeling, torn, punctured, or exhibit other signs of deterioration or when their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
(D) If an employer in a volunteer blood donation center judges that routine gloving for all phlebotomies is not necessary then the employer shall:
( 1 ) Periodically reevaluate this policy;
( 2 ) Make gloves available to all employees who wish to use them for phlebotomy;
( 3 ) Not discourage the use of gloves for phlebotomy; and
( 4 ) Require that gloves be used for phlebotomy in the following circumstances:
( i ) When the employee has cuts, scratches, or other breaks in his or her skin;
( ii ) When the employee judges that hand contamination with blood may occur, for example, when performing phlebotomy on an uncooperative source individual; and
( iii ) When the employee is receiving training in phlebotomy.
(x) Masks, Eye Protection, and Face Shields. Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or glasses with solid side shields, or chin- length face shields, shall be worn whenever splashes, spray, spatter, or droplets of blood or other potentially infectious materials may be generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
