§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(vi) Drums and containers containing packaged laboratory wastes shall be considered to contain shock-sensitive or explosive materials until they have been characterized.
(6) Laboratory waste packs. In addition to the requirements of paragraph (j)(5) of this section, the following precautions shall be taken, as a minimum, in handling laboratory waste packs (lab packs):
(i) Lab packs shall be opened only when necessary and then only by an individual knowledgeable in the inspection, classification, and segregation of the containers within the pack according to the hazards of the wastes.
(ii) If crystalline material is noted on any container, the contents shall be handled as a shock-sensitive waste until the contents are identified.
(7) Sampling of drum and container contents. Sampling of containers and drums shall be done in accordance with a sampling procedure which is part of the site safety and health plan developed for and available to employees and others at the specific worksite.
(8) Shipping and transport. (i) Drums and containers shall be identified and classified prior to packaging for shipment.
(ii) Drum or container staging areas shall be kept to the minimum number necessary to identify and classify materials safely and prepare them for transport.
(iii) Staging areas shall be provided with adequate access and egress routes.
(iv) Bulking of hazardous wastes shall be permitted only after a thorough characterization of the materials has been completed.
(9) Tank and vault procedures. (i) Tanks and vaults containing hazardous substances shall be handled in a manner similar to that for drums and containers, taking into consideration the size of the tank or vault.
(ii) Appropriate tank or vault entry procedures as described in the employer's safety and health plan shall be followed whenever employees must enter a tank or vault.
(k) Decontamination —(1) General. Procedures for all phases of decontamination shall be developed and implemented in accordance with this paragraph.
(2) Decontamination procedures. (i) A decontamination procedure shall be developed, communicated to employees and implemented before any employees or equipment may enter areas on site where potential for exposure to hazardous substances exists.
(ii) Standard operating procedures shall be developed to minimize employee contact with hazardous substances or with equipment that has contacted hazardous substances.
(iii) All employees leaving a contaminated area shall be appropriately decontaminated; all contaminated clothing and equipment leaving a contaminated area shall be appropriately disposed of or decontaminated.
