§ 1910.103 Hydrogen.
( b ) Piping and tubing shall conform to section 2—"Industrial Gas and Air Piping"—Code for Pressure Piping, ANSI B31.1-1967 with addenda B31.1-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
( c ) Joints in piping and tubing may be made by welding or brazing or by use of flanged, threaded, socket, or compression fittings. Gaskets and thread sealants shall be suitable for hydrogen service.
(iv) Equipment assembly. ( a ) Valves, gauges, regulators, and other accessories shall be suitable for hydrogen service.
( b ) Installation of hydrogen systems shall be supervised by personnel familiar with proper practices with reference to their construction and use.
( c ) Storage containers, piping, valves, regulating equipment, and other accessories shall be readily accessible, and shall be protected against physical damage and against tampering.
( d ) Cabinets or housings containing hydrogen control or operating equipment shall be adequately ventilated.
( e ) Each mobile hydrogen supply unit used as part of a hydrogen system shall be adequately secured to prevent movement.
( f ) Mobile hydrogen supply units shall be electrically bonded to the system before discharging hydrogen.
(v) Marking. The hydrogen storage location shall be permanently placarded as follows: "HYDROGEN—FLAMMABLE GAS—NO SMOKING—NO OPEN FLAMES," or equivalent.
(vi) Testing. After installations, all piping, tubing, and fittings shall be tested and proved hydrogen gas tight at maximum operating pressure.
(2) Location —(i) General. ( a ) The system shall be located so that it is readily accessible to delivery equipment and to authorized personnel.
( b ) Systems shall be located above ground.
( c ) Systems shall not be located beneath electric power lines.
( d ) Systems shall not be located close to flammable liquid piping or piping of other flammable gases.
( e ) Systems near aboveground flammable liquid storage shall be located on ground higher than the flammable liquid storage except when dikes, diversion curbs, grading, or separating solid walls are used to prevent accumulation of flammable liquids under the system.
