§ 1910.104 Oxygen.
(xiv)-(xvii) [Reserved]
(xviii) Exceptions. The distances in paragraphs (b)(3) (ii), (iii), (v) to (xi) inclusive, of this section do not apply where protective structures such as firewalls of adequate height to safeguard the oxygen storage systems are located between the bulk oxygen storage installation and the exposure. In such cases, the bulk oxygen storage installation may be a minimum distance of 1 foot from the firewall.
(4) Storage containers —(i) Foundations and supports. Permanently installed containers shall be provided with substantial noncombustible supports on firm noncombustible foundations.
(ii) Construction—liquid. Liquid oxygen storage containers shall be fabricated from materials meeting the impact test requirements of paragraph UG-84 of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6. Containers operating at pressures above 15 pounds per square inch gage (p.s.i.g.) shall be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968. Insulation surrounding the liquid oxygen container shall be noncombustible.
(iii) Construction—gaseous. High- pressure gaseous oxygen containers shall comply with one of the following:
( a ) Designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968.
( b ) Designed, constructed, tested, and maintained in accordance with DOT Specifications and Regulations.
(5) Piping, tubing, and fittings —(i) Selection. Piping, tubing, and fittings shall be suitable for oxygen service and for the pressures and temperatures involved.
(ii) Specification. Piping and tubing shall conform to section 2—Gas and Air Piping Systems of Code for Pressure Piping, ANSI, B31.1-1967 with addenda B31.10a-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
