§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(iii) Totally-encapsulating suits shall be capable of preventing inward test gas leakage of more than 0.5 percent. (See appendix A for a test method which may be used to evaluate this requirement.)
(5) Personal protective equipment (PPE) program. A written personal protective equipment program, which is part of the employer's safety and health program required in paragraph (b) of this section or required in paragraph (p)(1) of this section and which is also a part of the site-specific safety and health plan shall be established. The PPE program shall address the elements listed below. When elements, such as donning and doffing procedures, are provided by the manufacturer of a piece of equipment and are attached to the plan, they need not be rewritten into the plan as long as they adequately address the procedure or element.
(i) PPE selection based upon site hazards,
(ii) PPE use and limitations of the equipment,
(iii) Work mission duration,
(iv) PPE maintenance and storage,
(v) PPE decontamination and disposal,
(vi) PPE training and proper fitting,
(vii) PPE donning and doffing procedures,
(viii) PPE inspection procedures prior to, during, and after use,
(ix) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the PPE program, and
(x) Limitations during temperature extremes, heat stress, and other appropriate medical considerations.
(h) Monitoring —(1) General. (i) Monitoring shall be performed in accordance with this paragraph where there may be a question of employee exposure to hazardous concentrations of hazardous substances in order to assure proper selection of engineering controls, work practices and personal protective equipment so that employees are not exposed to levels which exceed permissible exposure limits, or published exposure levels if there are no permissible exposure limits, for hazardous substances.
(ii) Air monitoring shall be used to identify and quantify airborne levels of hazardous substances and safety and health hazards in order to determine the appropriate level of employee protection needed on site.
