§ 1910.137 Electrical protective equipment.
(B) Foreign material remains in place when the insulating material is folded and stretches with the insulating material surrounding it.
Note: Note to paragraph ( a ): Rubber insulating equipment meeting the following national consensus standards is deemed to be in compliance with the performance requirements of paragraph (a) of this section: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D120-09, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Gloves. ASTM D178-01 (2010), Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Matting. ASTM D1048-12, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Blankets. ASTM D1049-98 (2010), Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Covers. ASTM D1050-05 (2011), Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Line Hose. ASTM D1051-08, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Sleeves. The preceding standards also contain specifications for conducting the various tests required in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, the ac and dc proof tests, the breakdown test, the water-soak procedure, and the ozone test mentioned in this paragraph are described in detail in these ASTM standards. ASTM F1236-96 (2012), Standard Guide for Visual Inspection of Electrical Protective Rubber Products, presents methods and techniques for the visual inspection of electrical protective equipment made of rubber. This guide also contains descriptions and photographs of irregularities that can be found in this equipment. ASTM F819-10, Standard Terminology Relating to Electrical Protective Equipment for Workers, includes definitions of terms relating to the electrical protective equipment covered under this section.
(b) Design requirements for other types of electrical protective equipment. The following requirements apply to the design and manufacture of electrical protective equipment that is not covered by paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Voltage withstand. Insulating equipment used for the protection of employees shall be capable of withstanding, without failure, the voltages that may be imposed upon it.
