§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(v) The site emergency response plan shall be reviewed periodically and, as necessary, be amended to keep it current with new or changing site conditions or information.
(vi) An employee alarm system shall be installed in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.165 to notify employees of an emergency situation; to stop work activities if necessary; to lower background noise in order to speed communication; and to begin emergency procedures.
(vii) Based upon the information available at time of the emergency, the employer shall evaluate the incident and the site response capabilities and proceed with the appropriate steps to implement the site emergency response plan.
(m) Illumination. Areas accessible to employees shall be lighted to not less than the minimum illumination intensities listed in the following Table H-120.1 while any work is in progress:

Table H-120.1—Minimum Illumination Intensities in Foot-Candles
--------------------------------------------------------------
Foot-candles Area or operations
-------------------------------
5 General site areas.
3 Excavation and waste areas, accessways, active storage areas, loading platforms, refueling, and field maintenance areas.
5 Indoors: Warehouses, corridors, hallways, and exitways.
5 Tunnels, shafts, and general underground work areas. (Exception: Minimum of 10 foot-candles is required at tunnel and shaft heading during drilling mucking, and scaling. Mine Safety and Health Administration approved cap lights shall be acceptable for use in the tunnel heading.)
10 General shops (e.g., mechanical and electrical equipment rooms, active storerooms, barracks or living quarters, locker or dressing rooms, dining areas, and indoor toilets and workrooms.)
30 First aid stations, infirmaries, and offices.

(n) Sanitation at temporary workplaces —(1) Potable water. (i) An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided on the site.
(ii) Portable containers used to dispense drinking water shall be capable of being tightly closed, and equipped with a tap. Water shall not be dipped from containers.
