§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
( g ) Number of wraps on drum. There shall be not less than two full wraps of hoisting cable on the drum of cranes and hoists at all times of operation.
( h ) Drum flanges. Drums shall have a flange at each end to prevent the cable from slipping off.
( i ) Sheave guards. Bottom sheaves shall be protected by close fitting guards to prevent cable from jumping the sheave.
( j ) Preventing abrasion. The reeving of a rope shall be so arranged as to minimize chafing or abrading while in use.
(ix) Chains. ( a ) Chains used in load carrying service shall be inspected before initial use and weekly thereafter.
( b ) Chain shall be normalized or annealed periodically as recommended by the manufacturer.
( c ) If at any time any 3-foot length of chain is found to have stretched one-third the length of a link it shall be discarded.
( d ) Bolts or nails shall not be placed between two links to shorten or join chains.
( e ) Broken chains shall not be spliced by inserting a bolt between two links with the head of the bolt and nut sustaining the load, or by passing one link through another and inserting a bolt or nail to hold it.
(x) Fiber rope. ( a ) Frozen fiber rope shall not be used in load carrying service.
( b ) Fiber rope that has been subjected to acid or excessive heat shall not be used for load carrying purposes.
( c ) Fiber rope shall be protected from abrasion by padding where it is fastened or drawn over square corners or sharp or rough surfaces.
(25) [Reserved]
(26) Mechanical stackers and unstackers.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Lumber lifting devices. Lumber lifting devices on all stackers shall be designed and arranged so as to minimize the possibility of lumber falling from such devices.
(iii) Blocking hoisting platform. Means shall be provided to positively block the hoisting platform when employees must go beneath the stacker or unstacker hoist.
(iv) Identifying controls. Every manually operated control switch shall be properly identified and so located as to be readily accessible to the operator.
