§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(v) When any explosive has deteriorated to an extent that it is in an unstable or dangerous condition, or if nitroglycerin leaks from any explosives, then the person in possession of such explosive shall immediately proceed to destroy such explosive in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer. Only experienced persons shall be allowed to do the work of destroying explosives.
(vi) When magazines need inside repairs, all explosives shall be removed therefrom and the floors cleaned. In making outside repairs, if there is a possibility of causing sparks or fire the explosives shall be removed from the magazine. Explosives removed from a magazine under repair shall either be placed in another magazine or placed a safe distance from the magazine where they shall be properly guarded and protected until repairs have been completed, when they shall be returned to the magazine.
(vii) Smoking, matches, open flames, spark-producing devices, and firearms (except firearms carried by guards) shall not be permitted inside of or within 50 feet of magazines. The land surrounding a magazine shall be kept clear of all combustible materials for a distance of at least 25 feet. Combustible materials shall not be stored within 50 feet of magazines.
(viii) Magazines shall be in the charge of a competent person at all times and who shall be held responsible for the enforcement of all safety precautions.
(ix) Explosives recovered from blasting misfires shall be placed in a separate magazine until competent personnel has determined from the manufacturer the method of disposal. Caps recovered from blasting misfires shall not be reused. Such explosives and caps shall then be disposed of in the manner recommended by the manufacturer.
(d) Transportation of explosives —(1) General provisions. (i) No employee shall be allowed to smoke, carry matches or any other flame-producing device, or carry any firearms or loaded cartridges while in or near a motor vehicle transporting explosives; or drive, load, or unload such vehicle in a careless or reckless manner.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Explosives shall not be transferred from one vehicle to another within the confines of any jurisdiction (city, county, State, or other area) without informing the fire and police departments thereof. In the event of breakdown or collision the local fire and police departments shall be promptly notified to help safeguard such emergencies. Explosives shall be transferred from the disabled vehicle to another only, when proper and qualified supervision is provided.
