§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
( 2 ) When a subsequent final medical determination results in a medical finding, determination, or opinion that the employee no longer has a detected medical condition which places the employee at increased risk of material impairment to health from exposure to MDA.
(B) For the purposes of this section, the requirement that an employer return an employee to his or her former job status is not intended to expand upon or restrict any rights an employee has or would have had, absent temporary medical removal, to a specific job classification or position under the terms of a collective bargaining agreement.
(iii) Removal of other employee special protective measure or limitations. The employer shall remove any limitations placed on an employee, or end any special protective measures provided to an employee, pursuant to a final medical determination, when a subsequent final medical determination indicates that the limitations or special protective measures are no longer necessary.
(iv) Employer options pending a final medical determination. Where the physician review mechanism used pursuant to the medical surveillance provisions of this section, has not yet resulted in a final medical determination with respect to an employee, the employer shall act as follows:
(A) Removal. The employer may remove the employee from exposure to MDA, provide special protective measures to the employee, or place limitations upon the employee, consistent with the medical findings, determinations, or recommendations of any of the physicians who have reviewed the employee's health status.
(B) Return. The employer may return the employee to his or her former job status, and end any special protective measures provided to the employee, consistent with the medical findings, determinations, or recommendations of any of the physicians who have reviewed the employee's health status, with two exceptions.
( 1 ) If the initial removal, special protection, or limitation of the employee resulted from a final medical determination which differed from the findings, determinations, or recommendations of the initial physician; or
( 2 ) If the employee has been on removal status for the preceding six months as a result of exposure to MDA, then the employer shall await a final medical determination.
(v) Medical removal protection benefits —(A) Provisions of medical removal protection benefits. The employer shall provide to an employee up to six (6) months of medical removal protection benefits on each occasion that an employee is removed from exposure to MDA or otherwise limited pursuant to this section.
