§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
( b ) The date(s), number, duration and results of each of the samples taken, including a description of the sampling procedure used to determine representative employee exposure where applicable;
( c ) The type of respiratory protective devices worn, if any;
( d ) A description of the sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy; and
( e ) The environmental variables that could affect the measurement of employee exposure.
(ii) The employer shall maintain this record for at lest 40 years or for the duration of employment plus 20 years, whichever is longer.
(2) Medical surveillance. The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical surveillance as required by paragraph (j) of this section.
(i) The record shall include:
( a ) The name and description of duties of the employee;
( b ) A copy of the physician's written opinion;
( c ) The signed statement of any refusal to take a medical examination under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section; and
( d ) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to coke oven emissions.
(ii) The employer shall keep, or assure that the examining physician keeps, the following medical records:
( a ) A copy of the medical examination results including medical and work history required under paragraph (j)(2) of this section;
( b ) A description of the laboratory procedures used and a copy of any standards or guidelines used to interpret the test results;
( c ) The initial x-ray;
( d ) The x-rays for the most recent five (5) years;
( e ) Any x-ray with a demonstrated abnormality and all subsequent x-rays;
( f ) The initial cytologic examination slide and written description;
( g ) The cytologic examination slide and written description for the most recent 10 years; and
( h ) Any cytologic examination slides with demonstrated atypia, if such atypia persists for 3 years, and all subsequent slides and written descriptions.
(iii) The employer shall maintain medical records required under paragraph (m)(2) of this section for at least 40 years, or for the duration of employment plus 20 years, whichever is longer.
(3) Availability. (i) The employer shall make available upon request all records required to be maintained by paragraph (m) of this section to the Secretary and the Director for examination and copying.
