§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
(ii) The employer shall instruct the physician not to reveal in the written opinion specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure.
(iii) The employer shall provide a copy of the written opinion to the affected employee.
(k) Employee information and training —(1) Training program. (i) The employer shall train each employee who is employed in a regulated area in accordance with the requirements of this section. The employer shall institute a training program and ensure employee participation in the program.
(ii) The training program shall be provided as of January 27, 1977 for employees who are employed in the regulated area at that time or at the time of initial assignment to a regulated area.
(iii) The training program shall be provided at least annually for all employees who are employed in the regulated area, except that training regarding the occupational safety and health hazards associated with exposure to coke oven emissions and the purpose, proper use, and limitations of respiratory protective devices shall be provided at least quarterly until January 20, 1978.
(iv) The training program shall include informing each employee of:
( a ) The information contained in the substance information sheet for coke oven emissions (Appendix A);
( b ) The purpose, proper use, and limitations of respiratory protective devices required in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section;
( c ) The purpose for and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (j) of this section including information on the occupational safety and health hazards associated with exposure to coke oven emissions;
( d ) A review of all written procedures and schedules required under paragraph (f) of this section; and
( e ) A review of this standard.
(2) Access to training materials. (i) The employer shall make a copy of this standard and its appendixes readily available to all employees who are employed in the regulated area.
(ii) The employer shall provide upon request all materials relating to the employee information and training program to the Secretary and the Director.
