§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( e ) Leaking containers shall be removed to a storage room or taken to a safe location outside the building and the contents transferred to an undamaged container. (v) General purpose public warehouses. Storage shall be in accordance with Table H-14 or H-15 and in buildings or in portions of such buildings cut off by standard firewalls. Material creating no fire exposure hazard to the flammable liquids may be stored in the same area. ER26MR12.054 ER26MR12.055 (vi) Flammable liquid warehouses or storage buildings. ( a ) If the storage building is located 50 feet or less from a building or line of adjoining property that may be built upon, the exposing wall shall be a blank wall having a fire-resistance rating of at least 2 hours. ( b ) The total quantity of liquids within a building shall not be restricted, but the arrangement of storage shall comply with Table H-14 or H-15. ( c ) Containers in piles shall be separated by pallets or dunnage where necessary to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress on container walls. ( d ) Portable tanks stored over one tier high shall be designed to nest securely, without dunnage, and adequate materials handing equipment shall be available to handle tanks safely at the upper tier level. ( e ) No pile shall be closer than 3 feet to the nearest beam, chord, girder, or other obstruction, and shall be 3 feet below sprinkler deflectors or discharge orifices of water spray, or other overhead fire protection systems. ( f ) Aisles of at least 3 feet wide shall be provided where necessary for reasons of access to doors, windows or standpipe connections. (6) Storage outside buildings —(i) General. Storage outside buildings shall be in accordance with Table H-16 or H-17, and subdivisions (ii) and (iv) of this subparagraph. ER26MR12.056 (ii) Maximum storage. A maximum of 1,100 gallons of flammable liquids may be located adjacent to buildings located on the same premises and under the same management provided the provisions of subdivisions ( a ) and ( b ) of this subdivision are complied with. ( a ) [Reserved] ( b ) Where quantity stored exceeds 1,100 gallons, or provisions of subdivision (a) of this subdivision cannot be met, a minimum distance of 10 feet between buildings and nearest container of flammable liquid shall