§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
(4) [Reserved]
(5) Reversible dough brakes. Reversible brakes shall be provided with a guard or tripping mechanism on each side of the rolls. These guards shall be so arranged as to stop the machine or reverse the direction of the rolls so that they are outrunning if the guard is moved by contact of the operator.
(6) Cross-roll brakes. Cross-roll brakes shall be provided with guards that are similar in number and equal in effectiveness to guards on hand-fed brakes.
(7) Box- and roll-type dough sheeters.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Hoppers for sheeters shall have an automatic stop bar or automatic stopping device along the back edge of the hopper. If construction does not permit location at the back edge, the automatic stop bar or automatic stopping device shall be located where it will be most effective to accomplish the desired protection.
(8) [Reserved]
(9) Rotary, die machines, pretzel rolling, and pretzel-stick extruding machines. Dough hoppers shall have the entire opening protected with substantial grid-type guards to prevent the employee from getting his hands caught in moving parts, or the hopper shall be extended high enough so that the operator's hands cannot get into moving parts.
(10)-(11) [Reserved]
(12) Pan cooling towers. (i) Where pan cooling towers extend to two or more floors, a lockout switch shall be provided on each floor in order that mechanics working on the tower may positively lock the mechanism against starting. Only one start switch shall be used in the motor control circuit.
(ii) [Reserved]
(13) Chocolate melting, refining, and mixing kettles. Each kettle shall be provided with a cover to enclose the top of the kettle. The bottom outlet of each kettle shall be of such size and shape that the operator cannot reach in to touch the revolving paddle or come in contact with the shear point between the paddle and the side of the kettle.
(14)-(16) [Reserved]
(17) Peanut cooling trucks. Mechanically operated peanut cooling trucks shall have a grid-type cover over the entire top.
(l) Ovens —(1) General location.
(i)-(vi) [Reserved]
