§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(A) Failure of the pulling or tensioning equipment, (B) Failure of the conductor or cable being pulled, or (C) Failure of the previously installed lines or equipment. (iii) If the conductors that employees are installing or removing cross over energized conductors in excess of 600 volts and if the design of the circuit-interrupting devices protecting the lines so permits, the employer shall render inoperable the automatic-reclosing feature of these devices. (iv) Before employees install lines parallel to existing energized lines, the employer shall make a determination of the approximate voltage to be induced in the new lines, or work shall proceed on the assumption that the induced voltage is hazardous. Unless the employer can demonstrate that the lines that employees are installing are not subject to the induction of a hazardous voltage or unless the lines are treated as energized, temporary protective grounds shall be placed at such locations and arranged in such a manner that the employer can demonstrate will prevent exposure of each employee to hazardous differences in electric potential. Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( q )(2)( iv ): If the employer takes no precautions to protect employees from hazards associated with involuntary reactions from electric shock, a hazard exists if the induced voltage is sufficient to pass a current of 1 milliampere through a 500-ohm resistor. If the employer protects employees from injury due to involuntary reactions from electric shock, a hazard exists if the resultant current would be more than 6 milliamperes. Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( q )(2)( iv ): Appendix C to this section contains guidelines for protecting employees from hazardous differences in electric potential as required by this paragraph. (v) Reel-handling equipment, including pulling and tensioning devices, shall be in safe operating condition and shall be leveled and aligned. (vi) The employer shall ensure that employees do not exceed load ratings of stringing lines, pulling lines, conductor grips, load-bearing hardware and accessories, rigging, and hoists. (vii) The employer shall repair or replace defective pulling lines and accessories. (viii) The employer shall ensure that employees do not use conductor grips on wire rope unless the manufacturer specifically designed the grip for this application. (ix) The employer shall ensure that employees maintain reliable communications, through two-way radios or other equivalent means, between the reel tender and the pulling-rig operator. (x) Employees may operate the pulling rig only when