§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(21) Inspection and repair of tanks. All piping leading to tanks shall be blanked off or valved and locked or tagged. Any lines to sewers shall be blanked off to protect workers from air contaminants.
(22) Welding. Welding on blow tanks, accumulator tanks, or any other vessels where turpentine vapor or other combustible vapor could gather shall be done only after the vessel has been completely purged of fumes. Fresh air shall be supplied workers inside of vessels.
(23) Turpentine systems and storage tanks. Nonsparking tools and ground hose shall be used when pumping out the tank. The tank shall be surrounded by a berm or moat.
(h) Bleaching —(1) Bleaching engines. Bleaching engines, except the Bellmer type, shall be completely covered on the top, with the exception of one small opening large enough to allow filling, but too small to admit an employee. Platforms leading from one engine to another shall have standard guardrails that meet the requirements in subpart D of this part.
(2) Bleach mixing rooms. (i) The room in which the bleach powder is mixed shall be provided with adequate exhaust ventilation, located at the floor level, in accordance with American National Standard Z9.1—1951.
(ii) Chlorine gas shall be carried away from the work place and breathing area by an exhaust system. The gas shall be rendered neutral or harmless before being discharged into the atmosphere. The requirements of American National Standard Z9.2—1960 shall apply to this subdivision.
(iii) For emergency and rescue operations, the employer must provide employees with self-contained breathing apparatuses or supplied-air respirators, and ensure that employees use these respirators, in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134.
(3) Liquid chlorine. (i) Tanks of liquid chlorine shall be stored in an adequately ventilated unoccupied room, where their possible leakage cannot affect workers.
(ii) Gas masks capable of absorbing chlorine shall be supplied, conveniently placed, and regularly inspected, and workers who may be exposed to chlorine gas shall be instructed in their use.
(iii) For emergency and rescue work, independent self-contained oxygen-type masks or supplied air equipment shall be provided.
