§ 1910.306 Specific purpose equipment and installations.
(ii) Arranged to be locked in the open position; and
(iii) Placed within view of the runway contact conductors.
(2) Disconnecting means for cranes and monorail hoists. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, a motor-circuit switch, molded case switch, or circuit breaker shall be provided in the leads from the runway contact conductors or other power supply on all cranes and monorail hoists.
(ii) The disconnecting means shall be capable of being locked in the open position.
(iii) Means shall be provided at the operating station to open the power circuit to all motors of the crane or monorail hoist where the disconnecting means is not readily accessible from the crane or monorail hoist operating station.
(iv) The disconnecting means may be omitted where a monorail hoist or hand-propelled crane bridge installation meets all of the following conditions:
(A) The unit is controlled from the ground or floor level;
(B) The unit is within view of the power supply disconnecting means; and
(C) No fixed work platform has been provided for servicing the unit.
(3) Limit switch. A limit switch or other device shall be provided to prevent the load block from passing the safe upper limit of travel of any hoisting mechanism.
(4) Clearance. The dimension of the working space in the direction of access to live parts that may require examination, adjustment, servicing, or maintenance while alive shall be a minimum of 762 mm (2.5 ft). Where controls are enclosed in cabinets, the doors shall either open at least 90 degrees or be removable.
(c) Elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, moving walks, wheelchair lifts, and stairway chair lifts. The following requirements apply to elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, moving walks, wheelchair lifts, and stairway chair lifts.
(1) Disconnecting means. Elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, moving walks, wheelchair lifts, and stairway chair lifts shall have a single means for disconnecting all ungrounded main power supply conductors for each unit.
(2) Control panels. Control panels not located in the same space as the drive machine shall be located in cabinets with doors or panels capable of being locked closed.
