§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
( e ) Fittings. Hooks, shackles, rings, pad eyes, and other fittings that show excessive wear or that have been bent, twisted, or otherwise damaged shall be removed from service.
( f ) Running lines. Running lines of hoisting equipment located within 6 feet 6 inches of the ground or working level shall be boxed off or otherwise guarded, or the operating area shall be restricted.
( g ) Number of wraps on drum. There shall be not less than two full wraps of hoisting cable on the drum of cranes and hoists at all times of operation.
( h ) Drum flanges. Drums shall have a flange at each end to prevent the cable from slipping off.
( i ) Sheave guards. Bottom sheaves shall be protected by close fitting guards to prevent cable from jumping the sheave.
( j ) Preventing abrasion. The reeving of a rope shall be so arranged as to minimize chafing or abrading while in use.
(ix) Chains. ( a ) Chains used in load carrying service shall be inspected before initial use and weekly thereafter.
( b ) Chain shall be normalized or annealed periodically as recommended by the manufacturer.
( c ) If at any time any 3-foot length of chain is found to have stretched one-third the length of a link it shall be discarded.
( d ) Bolts or nails shall not be placed between two links to shorten or join chains.
( e ) Broken chains shall not be spliced by inserting a bolt between two links with the head of the bolt and nut sustaining the load, or by passing one link through another and inserting a bolt or nail to hold it.
(x) Fiber rope. ( a ) Frozen fiber rope shall not be used in load carrying service.
( b ) Fiber rope that has been subjected to acid or excessive heat shall not be used for load carrying purposes.
( c ) Fiber rope shall be protected from abrasion by padding where it is fastened or drawn over square corners or sharp or rough surfaces.
(25) [Reserved]
(26) Mechanical stackers and unstackers.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Lumber lifting devices. Lumber lifting devices on all stackers shall be designed and arranged so as to minimize the possibility of lumber falling from such devices.
