§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(f) Protection —(1) Conformance. In sprinklered buildings, the automatic sprinkler system in rooms containing spray finishing operations shall conform to the requirements of § 1910.159. In unsprinklered buildings where sprinklers are installed only to protect spraying areas, the installation shall conform to such standards insofar as they are applicable. Sprinkler heads shall be located so as to provide water distribution throughout the entire booth.
(2) Valve access. Automatic sprinklers protecting each spray booth (together with its connecting exhaust) shall be under an accessibly located separate outside stem and yoke (OS&Y) subcontrol valve.
(3) Cleaning of heads. Sprinklers protecting spraying areas shall be kept as free from deposits as practical by cleaning daily if necessary. (See also paragraph (g) of this section.)
(4) Portable extinguishers. An adequate supply of suitable portable fire extinguishers shall be installed near all spraying areas.
(g) Operations and maintenance —(1) Spraying. Spraying shall not be conducted outside of predetermined spraying areas.
(2) Cleaning. All spraying areas shall be kept as free from the accumulation of deposits of combustible residues as practical, with cleaning conducted daily if necessary. Scrapers, spuds, or other such tools used for cleaning purposes shall be of nonsparking material.
(3) Residue disposal. Residue scrapings and debris contaminated with residue shall be immediately removed from the premises and properly disposed of. Approved metal waste cans shall be provided wherever rags or waste are impregnated with finishing material and all such rags or waste deposited therein immediately after use. The contents of waste cans shall be properly disposed of at least once daily or at the end of each shift.
(4) Clothing storage. Spray finishing employees' clothing shall not be left on the premises overnight unless kept in metal lockers.
(5) Cleaning solvents. The use of solvents for cleaning operations shall be restricted to those having flashpoints not less than 100 degrees F.; however, for cleaning spray nozzles and auxiliary equipment, solvents having flashpoints not less than those normally used in spray operations may be used. Such cleaning shall be conducted inside spray booths and ventilating equipment operated during cleaning.
