§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(iv) Railroad cars shall not be spotted on tracks adjacent to the locomotive cranes unless a 24-inch clearance is maintained, as required in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(v) The handling and storage of other materials shall conform to paragraphs (c)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section with respect to clearance.
(vi) No person shall be permitted to walk beneath a suspended load, bucket, or hook.
(3) Handling pulpwood from ships.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) The hatch tender shall be required to signal the hoisting engineer to move the load only after the men working in the hold are in the clear.
(iii) The air in the ship's hold, tanks, or closed vessels shall be tested for oxygen deficiency and for both toxic and explosive gases and vapors.
(4) Handling pulpwood from flatcars and all other railway cars. (i) Railroad flatcars for the conveyance of pulpwood loaded parallel to the length of the car shall be equipped with safety-stake pockets.
(ii) Where pulpwood is loaded crosswise on a flatcar sufficient stakes of sizes not smaller than 4 by 4 inches shall be used to prevent the load from shifting.
(iii) When it is necessary to cut stakes, those on the unloading side should be partially cut through first, and then the binder wires cut on the opposite side. Wire cutters equipped with long extension handles shall be used. No person shall be permitted along the dumping side of the car after the stakes have been cut.
(iv) When steel straps without stakes are used, the steel straps shall be cut from a safe area to prevent employees from being struck by the falling logs.
(v) Flatcars and all other cars shall be chocked during unloading. Where equipment is not provided with hand brakes, rail clamping chocks shall be used.
(vi) A derail shall be used to prevent movement of other rail equipment into cars where persons are working.
(5) Handling pulpwood from trucks. (i) Cutting of stakes and binder wires shall be done in accordance with paragraph (c)4(iii) of this section.
(ii) Where binder chain and steel stakes are used, the binder chains shall be released and the stakes tripped from the opposite side of the load spillage.
