§ 1910.145 Specifications for accident prevention signs and tags.
(4) Biological hazard signs. The biological hazard warning shall be used to signify the actual or potential presence of a biohazard and to identify equipment, containers, rooms, materials, experimental animals, or combinations thereof, which contain, or are contaminated with, viable hazardous agents. For the purpose of this subparagraph the term "biological hazard," or "biohazard," shall include only those infectious agents presenting a risk or potential risk to the well-being of man.
(f) Accident prevention tags —(1) Scope and application. (i) This paragraph (f) applies to all accident prevention tags used to identify hazardous conditions and provide a message to employees with respect to hazardous conditions as set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, or to meet the specific tagging requirements of other OSHA standards.
(ii) This paragraph (f) does not apply to construction or agriculture.
(2) Definitions. Biological hazard or BIOHAZARD means those infectious agents presenting a risk of death, injury or illness to employees.
Major message means that portion of a tag's inscription that is more specific than the signal word and that indicates the specific hazardous condition or the instruction to be communicated to the employee. Examples include: "High Voltage," "Close Clearance," "Do Not Start," or "Do Not Use" or a corresponding pictograph used with a written text or alone.
Pictograph means a pictorial representation used to identify a hazardous condition or to convey a safety instruction.
Signal word means that portion of a tag's inscription that contains the word or words that are intended to capture the employee's immediate attention.
Tag means a device usually made of card, paper, pasteboard, plastic or other material used to identify a hazardous condition.
(3) Use. Tags shall be used as a means to prevent accidental injury or illness to employees who are exposed to hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions, equipment or operations which are out of the ordinary, unexpected or not readily apparent. Tags shall be used until such time as the identified hazard is eliminated or the hazardous operation is completed. Tags need not be used where signs, guarding or other positive means of protection are being used.
(4) General tag criteria. All required tags shall meet the following criteria:
(i) Tags shall contain a signal word and a major message.
