§ 1910.104 Oxygen.
(ii) Specification. Piping and tubing shall conform to section 2—Gas and Air Piping Systems of Code for Pressure Piping, ANSI, B31.1-1967 with addenda B31.10a-1969, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(iii) Fabrication. Piping or tubing for operating temperatures below −20 degrees F. shall be fabricated from materials meeting the impact test requirements of paragraph UG-84 of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968, when tested at the minimum operating temperature to which the piping may be subjected in service.
(6) Safety relief devices —(i) General. Bulk oxygen storage containers, regardless of design pressure shall be equipped with safety relief devices as required by the ASME code or the DOT specifications and regulations.
(ii) DOT containers. Bulk oxygen storage containers designed and constructed in accordance with DOT specification shall be equipped with safety relief devices as required thereby.
(iii) ASME containers. Bulk oxygen storage containers designed and constructed in accordance with the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessel—1968 shall be equipped with safety relief devices meeting the provisions of the Compressed Gas Association Pamphlet "Safety Relief Device Standards for Compressed Gas Storage Containers," S-1, part 3, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(iv) Insulation. Insulation casings on liquid oxygen containers shall be equipped with suitable safety relief devices.
(v) Reliability. All safety relief devices shall be so designed or located that moisture cannot collect and freeze in a manner which would interfere with proper operation of the device.
(7) Liquid oxygen vaporizers —(i) Mounts and couplings. The vaporizer shall be anchored and its connecting piping be sufficiently flexible to provide for the effect of expansion and contraction due to temperature changes.
(ii) Relief devices. The vaporizer and its piping shall be adequately protected on the oxygen and heating medium sections with safety relief devices.
(iii) Heating. Heat used in an oxygen vaporizer shall be indirectly supplied only through media such as steam, air, water, or water solutions which do not react with oxygen.
(iv) Grounding. If electric heaters are used to provide the primary source of heat, the vaporizing system shall be electrically grounded.
