§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(5) Pulpers. (i) All pulpers having the top or any other opening of a vessel less than 42 inches (107 cm) from the floor or work platform shall have such openings guarded by guardrail systems that meet the requirements in subpart D of this part, or other equivalent enclosures. For manual changing, openings shall be sufficient only to permit the entry of stock, and shall be provided with at least two permanently secured crossrails, or other fall protection systems that meet the requirements in subpart D.
(ii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter the pulpers, they shall be equipped with safety belt and lifeline, and one person shall be stationed outside at a position to observe and assist in case of emergency.
(iii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter pulpers, all steam, water, or other control devices shall be locked or tagged out. Blank flanging and tagging of pipe lines is acceptable in place of closed and locked or tagged valves. Blank flanging of steam and water lines shall be acceptable in place of valve locks.
(6) Stock chests. (i) All control devices shall be locked or tagged out when persons enter stock chests, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(ii) When cleaning, inspecting, or other work requires that persons enter stock chests, they shall be provided with a low-voltage extension light.
(k) Machine room —(1) Emergency stops. Paper machines shall be equipped with devices that will stop the machine quickly in an emergency. The devices shall consist of push buttons for electric motive power (or electrically operated engine stops), pull cords connected directly to the prime mover, control clutches, or other devices, interlocked with adequate braking action. The devices shall be tested periodically by making use of them when stopping the machine and shall be so located that any person working on the machine can quickly disconnect the machine from the source of power in case of emergency.
(2) Drives. (i) All drives shall be provided with lockout devices at the power switch which interrupts the flow of current to the unit.
(ii) All ends of rotating shafts including dryer drum shafts shall be completely guarded.
(iii) All accessible disengaged doctor blades should be covered.
(iv) All exposed shafts shall be guarded. Crossovers shall be provided.
