§ 1910.262 Textiles.
(12) Exposed to contact. Exposed to contact shall mean that the location of an object, material, nip point, or point of operation is such that a person is liable to come in contact with it in his normal course of employment.
(13) Garnett machine. A Garnett machine means any of a number of types of machines for opening hard twisted waste of wool, cotton, silk, etc. Essentially, such machines consist of a lickerin; one or more cylinders, each having a complement worker and stripper rolls; and a fancy roll and doffer. The action of such machines is somewhat like that of a wool card, but it is much more severe in that the various rolls are covered with garnett wire instead of card clothing.
(14) Gill box. A gill box is a machine used in the worsted system of manufacturing yarns. Its function is to arrange the fibers in parallel order. Essentially, it consists of a pair of feed rolls and a series of followers where the followers move at a faster surface speed and perform a combing action.
(15) Interlock. An interlock is a device that operates to prevent the operation of machine while the cover or door of the machine is open or unlocked, and which will also hold the cover or door closed and locked while the machine is in motion.
(16) Jig (dye). A dye jig is a machine for dyeing piece goods. The cloth, at full width, passes from a roller through the dye liquor in an open vat and is then wound on another roller. The operation is repeated until the desired shade is obtained.
(17) Kier. A kier is a large metal vat, usually a pressure type, in which fabrics may be boiled out, bleached, etc.
(18) Lapper (ribbon). A ribbon lapper is a machine used to prepare laps for feeding a cotton comb; its purpose is to provide a uniform lap in which the fibers have been straightened as much as possible.
(19) Lapper (sliver). A sliver lapper is a machine in which a number of parallel card slivers are drafted slightly, laid side by side in a compact sheet, and wound into a cylindrical package.
