§ 1910.1051 1,3-Butadiene.
(b) Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply: Action level means a concentration of airborne BD of 0.5 ppm calculated as an eight (8)-hour time-weighted average. Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee. Authorized person means any person specifically designated by the employer, whose duties require entrance into a regulated area, or a person entering such an area as a designated representative of employees to exercise the right to observe monitoring and measuring procedures under paragraph (d)(8) of this section, or a person designated under the Act or regulations issued under the Act to enter a regulated area. 1,3-Butadiene means an organic compound with chemical formula CH 2 = CH-CH = CH 2 that has a molecular weight of approximately 54.15 gm/mole. Business day means any Monday through Friday, except those days designated as federal, state, local or company specific holidays. Complete Blood Count (CBC) means laboratory tests performed on whole blood specimens and includes the following: White blood cell count (WBC), hematocrit (Hct), red blood cell count (RBC), hemoglobin (Hgb), differential count of white blood cells, red blood cell morphology, red blood cell indices, and platelet count. Day means any part of a calendar day. Director means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. Emergency situation means any occurrence such as, but not limited to, equipment failure, rupture of containers, or failure of control equipment that may or does result in an uncontrolled significant release of BD. Employee exposure means exposure of a worker to airborne concentrations of BD which would occur if the employee were not using respiratory protective equipment. Objective data means monitoring data, or mathematical modelling or calculations based on composition, chemical and physical properties of a material, stream or product. Permissible Exposure Limits, PELs means either the 8 hour Time Weighted Average (8-hr TWA) exposure or the Short-Term Exposure Limit (STEL). Physician or other licensed health care professional is an individual whose legally permitted scope of practice ( i.e. , license, registration, or certification) allows him or her to independently provide or be delegated the