§ 1910.178 Powered industrial trucks.
(e) Safety guards. (1) High Lift Rider trucks shall be fitted with an overhead guard manufactured in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, unless operating conditions do not permit.
(2) If the type of load presents a hazard, the user shall equip fork trucks with a vertical load backrest extension manufactured in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(f) Fuel handling and storage. (1) The storage and handling of liquid fuels such as gasoline and diesel fuel shall be in accordance with NFPA Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code (NFPA No. 30-1969), which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(2) The storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gas fuel shall be in accordance with NFPA Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases (NFPA No. 58-1969), which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(g) Changing and charging storage batteries. (1) Battery charging installations shall be located in areas designated for that purpose.
(2) Facilities shall be provided for flushing and neutralizing spilled electrolyte, for fire protection, for protecting charging apparatus from damage by trucks, and for adequate ventilation for dispersal of fumes from gassing batteries.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) A conveyor, overhead hoist, or equivalent material handling equipment shall be provided for handling batteries.
(5) Reinstalled batteries shall be properly positioned and secured in the truck.
(6) A carboy tilter or siphon shall be provided for handling electrolyte.
(7) When charging batteries, acid shall be poured into water; water shall not be poured into acid.
(8) Trucks shall be properly positioned and brake applied before attempting to change or charge batteries.
(9) Care shall be taken to assure that vent caps are functioning. The battery (or compartment) cover(s) shall be open to dissipate heat.
(10) Smoking shall be prohibited in the charging area.
(11) Precautions shall be taken to prevent open flames, sparks, or electric arcs in battery charging areas.
(12) Tools and other metallic objects shall be kept away from the top of uncovered batteries.
