§ 1910.134 Respiratory protection.
(iii) All employees engaged in interior structural firefighting use SCBAs.
Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( g ): One of the two individuals located outside the IDLH atmosphere may be assigned to an additional role, such as incident commander in charge of the emergency or safety officer, so long as this individual is able to perform assistance or rescue activities without jeopardizing the safety or health of any firefighter working at the incident.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( g ): Nothing in this section is meant to preclude firefighters from performing emergency rescue activities before an entire team has assembled.
(h) Maintenance and care of respirators. This paragraph requires the employer to provide for the cleaning and disinfecting, storage, inspection, and repair of respirators used by employees.
(1) Cleaning and disinfecting. The employer shall provide each respirator user with a respirator that is clean, sanitary, and in good working order. The employer shall ensure that respirators are cleaned and disinfected using the procedures in appendix B-2 of this section, or procedures recommended by the respirator manufacturer, provided that such procedures are of equivalent effectiveness. The respirators shall be cleaned and disinfected at the following intervals:
(i) Respirators issued for the exclusive use of an employee shall be cleaned and disinfected as often as necessary to be maintained in a sanitary condition;
(ii) Respirators issued to more than one employee shall be cleaned and disinfected before being worn by different individuals;
(iii) Respirators maintained for emergency use shall be cleaned and disinfected after each use; and
(iv) Respirators used in fit testing and training shall be cleaned and disinfected after each use.
(2) Storage. The employer shall ensure that respirators are stored as follows:
(i) All respirators shall be stored to protect them from damage, contamination, dust, sunlight, extreme temperatures, excessive moisture, and damaging chemicals, and they shall be packed or stored to prevent deformation of the facepiece and exhalation valve.
(ii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section, emergency respirators shall be:
(A) Kept accessible to the work area;
