§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(iv) Vent pipes, when used, shall not be restricted or of smaller diameter than the relief-valve outlet connection.
(v) If desired, vent pipes from two or more safety-relief devices located on the same unit, or similar lines from two or more different units may be run into a common discharge header, provided the capacity of such header is at least equal to the sum of the capacities of the individual discharge lines.
(4) Reinstallation of containers. (i) Containers once installed under ground shall not later be reinstalled above ground or under ground, unless they successfully withstand hydrostatic pressure retests at the pressure specified for the original hydrostatic test as required by the code under which constructed and show no evidence of serious corrosion.
(ii) Where containers are reinstalled above ground, safety devices or gaging devices shall comply with paragraph (b)(9) of this section and this paragraph respectively for aboveground containers.
(5) Installation of storage containers. (i) Containers installed above ground, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section shall be provided with substantial concrete or masonry supports, or structural steel supports on firm concrete or masonry foundations. All foundations shall extend below the frost line.
(ii) Horizontal aboveground containers shall be so mounted on foundations as to permit expansion and contraction. Every container shall be supported to prevent the concentration of excessive loads on the supporting portion of the shell. That portion of the container in contact with foundations or saddles shall be protected against corrosion.
(iii) Containers installed under ground shall be so placed that the top of the container is below the frost line and in no case less than 2 feet below the surface of the ground. Should ground conditions make compliance with these requirements impracticable, installation shall be made otherwise to prevent physical damage. It will not be necessary to cover the portion of the container to which manhole and other connections are affixed. When necessary to prevent floating, containers shall be securely anchored or weighted.
(iv) Underground containers shall be set on a firm foundation (firm earth may be used) and surrounded with earth or sand well tamped in place. The container, prior to being placed under ground, shall be given a corrosion resisting protective coating. The container thus coated shall be so lowered into place as to prevent abrasion or other damage to the coating.
