§ 1910.264 Laundry machinery and operations.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) General requirements. This section applies to moving parts of equipment used in laundries and to conditions peculiar to this industry, with special reference to the point of operation of laundry machines. This section does not apply to dry-cleaning operations.
(c) Point-of-operation guards —(1) Washroom machines.
(i) [Reserved]
(ii) Washing machine.
( a ) [Reserved]
( b ) Each washing machine shall be provided with means for holding open the doors or covers of inner and outer cylinders or shells while being loaded or unloaded.
(2) Starching and drying machines.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Drying tumbler.
( a ) [Reserved]
( b ) Each drying tumbler shall be provided with means for holding open the doors or covers of inner and outer cylinders or shells while being loaded or unloaded.
(iv) Shaker (clothes tumbler).
( a ) through ( b )( 1 ) [Reserved]
( 2 ) Each shaker or clothes tumbler of the double-cylinder type shall be provided with means for holding open the doors or covers of inner and outer cylinders or shells while being loaded or unloaded.
(v) Exception. Provisions of paragraph (c)(2) (iii), (iv)( a )( 1 ), and (iv)( b ) of this section shall not apply to shakeout or conditioning tumblers where the clothes are loaded into the open end of the revolving cylinder and are automatically discharged out of the opposite end.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Miscellaneous machines and equipment.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Steam pipes. ( a ) All steam pipes that are within 7 feet of the floor or working platform, and with which the worker may come into contact, shall be insulated or covered with a heat-resistive material or shall be otherwise properly guarded.
( b ) Where pressure-reducing valves are used, one or more relief or safety valves shall be provided on the low-pressure side of the reducing valve, in case the piping or equipment on the low-pressure side does not meet the requirements for full initial pressure. The relief or safety valve shall be located adjacent to, or as close as possible to, the reducing valve. Proper protection shall be provided to prevent injury or damage caused by fluid escaping from relief or safety valves if vented to the atmosphere. The vents shall be of ample size and as short and direct as possible. The combined discharge capacity of the relief valves shall be such that the pressure rating of the lower-pressure piping and equipment will not be exceeded if the reducing valve sticks or fails to open.
(d) Operating rules —(1) General.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Markers. Markers and others handling soiled clothes shall be warned against touching the eyes, mouth, or any part of the body on which the skin has been broken by a scratch or abrasion; and they shall be cautioned not to touch or eat food until their hands have been thoroughly washed.
(iv) [Reserved]
(v) Instruction of employees. Employees shall be properly instructed as to the hazards of their work and be instructed in safe practices, by bulletins, printed rules, and verbal instructions.
(2) Mechanical —(i) Safety guards. ( a ) No safeguard, safety appliance, or device attached to, or forming an integral part of any machinery shall be removed or made ineffective except for the purpose of making immediate repairs or adjustments. Any such safeguard, safety appliance, or device removed or made ineffective during the repair or adjustment of such machinery shall be replaced immediately upon the completion of such repairs or adjustments.
(b) [Reserved]