§ 1910.147 The control of hazardous energy (lockout/tagout).
(C) All other employees whose work operations are or may be in an area where energy control procedures may be utilized, shall be instructed about the procedure, and about the prohibition relating to attempts to restart or reenergize machines or equipment which are locked out or tagged out.
(ii) When tagout systems are used, employees shall also be trained in the following limitations of tags:
(A) Tags are essentially warning devices affixed to energy isolating devices, and do not provide the physical restraint on those devices that is provided by a lock.
(B) When a tag is attached to an energy isolating means, it is not to be removed without authorization of the authorized person responsible for it, and it is never to be bypassed, ignored, or otherwise defeated.
(C) Tags must be legible and understandable by all authorized employees, affected employees, and all other employees whose work operations are or may be in the area, in order to be effective.
(D) Tags and their means of attachment must be made of materials which will withstand the environmental conditions encountered in the workplace.
(E) Tags may evoke a false sense of security, and their meaning needs to be understood as part of the overall energy control program.
(F) Tags must be securely attached to energy isolating devices so that they cannot be inadvertently or accidentally detached during use.
(iii) Employee retraining.
(A) Retraining shall be provided for all authorized and affected employees whenever there is a change in their job assignments, a change in machines, equipment or processes that present a new hazard, or when there is a change in the energy control procedures.
(B) Additional retraining shall also be conducted whenever a periodic inspection under paragraph (c)(6) of this section reveals, or whenever the employer has reason to believe, that there are deviations from or inadequacies in the employee's knowledge or use of the energy control procedures.
(C) The retraining shall reestablish employee proficiency and introduce new or revised control methods and procedures, as necessary.
(iv) The employer shall certify that employee training has been accomplished and is being kept up to date. The certification shall contain each employee's name and dates of training.
(8) Energy isolation. Lockout or tagout shall be performed only bythe authorized employees who are performing the servicing or maintenance.
