§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( b ) Explosives and blasting agents shall not be stored in the same building with ammonium nitrate except on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents.
( c ) Where explosives or blasting agents are stored in separate buildings, other than on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents, they shall be separated from the ammonium nitrate by the distances and/or barricades specified in Table H-22 of this subpart, but by not less than 50 feet.
( d ) Storage and/or operations on the premises of makers, distributors, and user-compounders of explosives or blasting agents shall be in conformity with paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(6) General precautions. (i) Electrical installations shall conform to the requirements of subpart S of this part, for ordinary locations. They shall be designed to minimize damage from corrosion.
(ii) In areas where lightning storms are prevalent, lightning protection shall be provided. (See the Lightning Protection Code, NFPA 78-1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.)
(iii) Provisions shall be made to prevent unauthorized personnel from entering the ammonium nitrate storage area.
(7) Fire protection. (i) Not more than 2,500 tons (2270 tonnes) of bagged ammonium nitrate shall be stored in a building or structure not equipped with an automatic sprinkler system. Sprinkler systems shall be of the approved type and installed in accordance with § 1910.159.
(ii)( a ) Suitable fire control devices such as small hose or portable fire extinguishers shall be provided throughout the warehouse and in the loading and unloading areas. Suitable fire control devices shall comply with the requirements of §§ 1910.157 and 1910.158.
( b ) Water supplies and fire hydrants shall be available in accordance with recognized good practices.
(j) Small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and small arms propellants —(1) Scope. This paragraph does not apply to in-process storage and intraplant transportation during manufacture of small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and smokeless propellants.
