§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(v) All foot-brake pedals shall be constructed so that the operator's foot will not easily slip off the pedal.
(vi) Foot-operated brakes shall be equipped with automatic means for positive release when pressure is released from the pedal.
(vii) Brakes for stopping the motion of the trolley or bridge shall be of sufficient size to stop the trolley or bridge within a distance in feet equal to 10 percent of full load speed in feet per minute when traveling at full speed with full load.
(viii) If holding brakes are provided on the bridge or trolleys, they shall not prohibit the use of a drift point in the control circuit.
(ix) Brakes on trolleys and bridges shall have ample thermal capacity for the frequency of operation required by the service to prevent impairment of functions from overheating.
(5) Application of trolley brakes. (i) On cab-operated cranes with cab on trolley, a trolley brake shall be required as specified under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(ii) A drag brake may be applied to hold the trolley in a desired position on the bridge and to eliminate creep with the power off.
(6) Application of bridge brakes. (i) On cab-operated cranes with cab on bridge, a bridge brake is required as specified under paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(ii) On cab-operated cranes with cab on trolley, a bridge brake of the holding type shall be required.
(iii) On all floor, remote and pulpit-operated crane bridge drives, a brake of noncoasting mechanical drive shall be provided.
(g) Electric equipment —(1) General. (i) Wiring and equipment shall comply with subpart S of this part.
(ii) The control circuit voltage shall not exceed 600 volts for a.c. or d.c. current.
(iii) The voltage at pendant push-buttons shall not exceed 150 volts for a.c. and 300 volts for d.c.
(iv) Where multiple conductor cable is used with a suspended pushbutton station, the station must be supported in some satisfactory manner that will protect the electrical conductors against strain.
(v) Pendant control boxes shall be constructed to prevent electrical shock and shall be clearly marked for identification of functions.
(2) Equipment. (i) Electrical equipment shall be so located or enclosed that live parts will not be exposed to accidental contact under normal operating conditions.
