§ 1910.177 Servicing multi-piece and single piece rim wheels.
(e) Wheel component acceptability. (1) Multi-piece wheel components shall not be interchanged except as provided in the charts or in the applicable rim manual. (2) Multi-piece wheel components and single piece wheels shall be inspected prior to assembly. Any wheel or wheel component which is bent out of shape, pitted from corrosion, broken, or cracked shall not be used and shall be marked or tagged unserviceable and removed from the service area. Damaged or leaky valves shall be replaced. (3) Rim flanges, rim gutters, rings, bead seating surfaces and the bead areas of tires shall be free of any dirt, surface rust, scale or loose or flaked rubber build-up prior to mounting and inflation. (4) The size (bead diameter and tire/wheel widths) and type of both the tire and the wheel shall be checked for compatibility prior to assembly of the rim wheel. (f) Safe operating procedure—multi-piece rim wheels. The employer shall establish a safe operating procedure for servicing multi-piece rim wheels and shall assure that employees are instructed in and follow that procedure. The procedure shall include at least the following elements: (1) Tires shall be completely deflated before demounting by removal of the valve core. (2) Tires shall be completely deflated by removing the valve core before a rim wheel is removed from the axle in either of the following situations: (i) When the tire has been driven underinflated at 80% or less of its recommended pressure, or (ii) When there is obvious or suspected damage to the tire or wheel components. (3) Rubber lubricant shall be applied to bead and rim mating surfaces during assembly of the wheel and inflation of the tire, unless the tire or wheel manufacturer recommends against it. (4) If a tire on a vehicle is underinflated but has more than 80% of the recommended pressure, the tire may be inflated while the rim wheel is on the vehicle provided remote control inflation equipment is used, and no employees remain in the trajectory during inflation. (5) Tires shall be inflated outside a restraining device only to a pressure sufficient to force the tire bead onto the rim ledge and create an airtight seal with the tire and bead. (6) Whenever a rim wheel is in a restraining device the employee shall not rest or lean any part of his body or equipment on or