§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(iv) Operation of clutches and brakes of hoist.
(2) Anchorages. All anchorages shall be approved by the appointed person. Rock and hairpin anchorages may require special testing.
(f) Maintenance —(1) Preventive maintenance. A preventive maintenance program based on the derrick manufacturer's recommendations shall be established.
(2) Maintenance procedure. (i) Before adjustments and repairs are started on a derrick the following precautions shall be taken:
( a ) The derrick to be repaired shall be arranged so it will cause the least interference with other equipment and operations in the area.
( b ) All hoist drum dogs shall be engaged.
( c ) The main or emergency switch shall be locked in the open position, if an electric hoist is used.
( d ) Warning or out of order signs shall be placed on the derrick and hoist.
( e ) The repairs of booms of derricks shall either be made when the booms are lowered and adequately supported or safely tied off.
( f ) A good communication system shall be set up between the hoist operator and the appointed individual in charge of derrick operations before any work on the equipment is started.
(ii) After adjustments and repairs have been made the derrick shall not be operated until all guards have been reinstalled, safety devices reactivated, and maintenance equipment removed.
(3) Adjustments and repairs. (i) Any unsafe conditions disclosed by inspection shall be corrected before operation of the derrick is resumed.
(ii) Adjustments shall be maintained to assure correct functioning of components.
(iii) Repairs or replacements shall be provided promptly as needed for safe operation. The following are examples of conditions requiring prompt repair or replacement:
( a ) Hooks showing defects described in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section shall be discarded.
( b ) All critical parts which are cracked, broken, bent, or excessively worn.
( c ) [Reserved]
( d ) All replacement and repaired parts shall have at least the original safety factor.
