§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( f ) Buildings and structures shall be dry and free from water seepage through the roof, walls, and floors. (3) Storage of ammonium nitrate in bags, drums, or other containers. (i)( a ) Bags and containers used for ammonium nitrate must comply with specifications and standards required for use in interstate commerce (see 49 CFR chapter I). ( b ) Containers used on the premises in the actual manufacturing or processing need not comply with provisions of paragraph (i)(3)(i)( a ) of this paragraph. (ii)( a ) Containers of ammonium nitrate shall not be accepted for storage when the temperature of the ammonium nitrate exceeds 130 degrees F. ( b ) Bags of ammonium nitrate shall not be stored within 30 inches of the storage building walls and partitions. ( c ) The height of piles shall not exceed 20 feet. The width of piles shall not exceed 20 feet and the length 50 feet except that where the building is of noncombustible construction or is protected by automatic sprinklers the length of piles shall not be limited. In no case shall the ammonium nitrate be stacked closer than 36 inches below the roof or supporting and spreader beams overhead. ( d ) Aisles shall be provided to separate piles by a clear space of not less than 3 feet in width. At least one service or main aisle in the storage area shall be not less than 4 feet in width. (4) Storage of bulk ammonium nitrate. (i)( a ) Warehouses shall have adequate ventilation or be capable of adequate ventilation in case of fire. ( b ) Unless constructed of noncombustible material or unless adequate facilities for fighting a roof fire are available, bulk storage structures shall not exceed a height of 40 feet. (ii)( a ) Bins shall be clean and free of materials which may contaminate ammonium nitrate. ( b ) Due to the corrosive and reactive properties of ammonium nitrate, and to avoid contamination, galvanized iron, copper, lead, and zinc shall not be used in a bin construction unless suitably protected. Aluminum bins and wooden bins protected against impregnation by ammonium nitrate are permissible. The partitions dividing the ammonium nitrate storage from other products which would contaminate the ammonium nitrate shall be of tight construction. ( c ) The ammonium nitrate storage bins or piles shall be clearly identified by signs reading "Ammonium Nitrate" with