§ 1910.107 Spray finishing using flammable and combustible materials.
(7) Conveyors. Where conveyors are arranged to carry work into or out of spray booths, the openings therefor shall be as small as practical.
(8) Separation of operations. Each spray booth shall be separated from other operations by not less than 3 feet, or by a greater distance, or by such partition or wall as to reduce the danger from juxtaposition of hazardous operations. See also paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(9) Cleaning. Spray booths shall be so installed that all portions are readily accessible for cleaning. A clear space of not less than 3 feet on all sides shall be kept free from storage or combustible construction.
(10) Illumination. When spraying areas are illuminated through glass panels or other transparent materials, only fixed lighting units shall be used as a source of illumination. Panels shall effectively isolate the spraying area from the area in which the lighting unit is located, and shall be of a noncombustible material of such a nature or so protected that breakage will be unlikely. Panels shall be so arranged that normal accumulations of residue on the exposed surface of the panel will not be raised to a dangerous temperature by radiation or conduction from the source of illumination.
(c) Electrical and other sources of ignition —(1) Conformance. All electrical equipment, open flames and other sources of ignition shall conform to the requirements of this paragraph, except as follows:
(i) Electrostatic apparatus shall conform to the requirements of paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section;
(ii) Drying, curing, and fusion apparatus shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section;
(iii) Automobile undercoating spray operations in garages shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section;
(iv) Powder-coating equipment shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (l)(1) of this section.
(2) Minimum separation. There shall be no open flame or spark producing equipment in any spraying area nor within 20 feet thereof, unless separated by a partition.
(3) Hot surfaces. Space-heating appliances, steampipes, or hot surfaces shall not be located in a spraying area where deposits of combustible residues may readily accumulate.
(4) Wiring conformance. Electrical wiring and equipment shall conform to the provisions of this paragraph and shall otherwise be in accordance with subpart S of this part.
