§ 1910.215 Abrasive wheel machinery.
(iii) The band shall be of sufficient width and its position kept so adjusted that at no time will the wheel protrude beyond the edge of the band a distance greater than that indicated in Figure O-29 and in Table O-2 or the wall thickness (W), whichever is smaller.
(12) Guard design specifications. Abrasive wheel machinery guards shall meet the design specifications of the American National Standard Safety Code for the Use, Care, and Protection of Abrasive Wheels, ANSI B7.1-1970, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6. This requirement shall not apply to natural sandstone wheels or metal, wooden, cloth, or paper discs, having a layer of abrasive on the surface.
(c) Flanges —(1) General requirements. All abrasive wheels shall be mounted between flanges which shall not be less than one-third the diameter of the wheel.
(i) Exceptions:
( a ) Mounted wheels.
( b ) Portable wheels with threaded inserts or projecting studs.
( c ) Abrasive discs (inserted nut, inserted washer and projecting stud type).
( d ) Plate mounted wheels.
( e ) Cylinders, cup, or segmental wheels that are mounted in chucks.
( f ) Types 27 and 28 wheels.
( g ) Certain internal wheels.
( h ) Modified types 6 and 11 wheels (terrazzo).
( i ) Cutting-off wheels, Types 1 and 27A (see paragraphs (c)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section).
(ii) Type 1 cutting-off wheels are to be mounted between properly relieved flanges which have matching bearing surfaces. Such flanges shall be at least one-fourth the wheel diameter.
(iii) Type 27A cutting-off wheels are designed to be mounted by means of flat, not relieved, flanges having matching bearing surfaces and which may be less than one-third but shall not be less than one-fourth the wheel diameter. (See Figure O-24 for one such type of mounting.)
(iv) There are three general types of flanges:
( a ) Straight relieved flanges (see Figure O-32);
( b ) Straight unrelieved flanges (see Figure O-30);
( c ) Adaptor flanges (see Figures O-33 and O-34);
