§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(ii) When approved pipeline protective equipment (designated P F ) is located at the station outlet as in Figure Q-3, no additional check valve, pressure regulator, or hydraulic seal is required.
(iii) A shutoff valve (designated V F and V O ) shall be installed at each station outlet and shall be located on the upstream side of other station outlet equipment.
(iv) If the station outlet is equipped with a detachable regulator, the outlet shall terminate in a union connection that complies with the Regulator Connection Standards, 1958, Compressed Gas Association, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(v) If the station outlet is connected directly to a hose, the outlet shall terminate in a union connection complying with the Standard Hose Connection Specifications, 1957, Compressed Gas Association, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(vi) Station outlets may terminate in pipe threads to which permanent connections are to be made, such as to a machine.
(vii) Station outlets shall be equipped with a detachable outlet seal cap secured in place. This cap shall be used to seal the outlet except when a hose, a regulator, or piping is attached.
(viii) Where station outlets are equipped with approved backflow and flashback protective devices, as many as four torches may be supplied from one station outlet through rigid piping, provided each outlet from such piping is equipped with a shutoff valve and provided the fuel-gas capacity of any one torch does not exceed 15 cubic feet (0.42 m 3 ) per hour. This paragraph (e)(4)(viii) does not apply to machines.
(5) Hose and hose connections. (i) Hose for oxy-fuel gas service shall comply with the Specification for Rubber Welding Hose, 1958, Compressed Gas Association and Rubber Manufacturers Association, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(ii) When parallel lengths of oxygen and acetylene hose are taped together for convenience and to prevent tangling, not more than 4 inches (10.2 cm) out of 12 inches (30.5 cm) shall be covered by tape.
(iii) Hose connections shall comply with the Standard Hose Connection Specifications, 1957, Compressed Gas Association.
