§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
(4) Filtered air. (i) The employer shall provided positive-pressure, temperature controlled filtered air for larry car, pusher machine, door machine, and quench car cabs.
(ii) The employer shall provide standby pulpits on the battery topside, at the wharf, and at ther screening station, equipped with positive-pressure, temperature controlled filtered air.
(5) Emergencies. Whenever an emergency occurs, the next coking cycle may not begin until the cause of the emergency is determined and corrected, unless the employer can establish that it is necessary to initiate the next coking cycle in order to determine the cause of the emergency.
(6) Compliance program. (i) Each employer shall establish and implement a written program to reduce exposures solely by means of the engineering and work practice controls required in paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) The written program shall include at least the following:
( a ) A description of each coke oven operation by battery, including work force and operating crew, coking time, operating procedures and maintenance practices;
( b ) Engineering plans and other studies used to determine the controls for the coke battery;
( c ) A report of the technology considered in meeting the permissible exposure limit;
( d ) Monitoring data obtained in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
( e ) A detailed schedule for the implementation of the engineering and work practice controls required in paragraph (f) of this section; and
( f ) Other relevant information.
(iii) If, after implementing all controls required by paragraph (f)(2)-(f)(4) of this section, or after January 20, 1980, whichever is sooner, or after completion of a new or rehabilitated battery the permissible exposure limit is still exceeded, the employer shall develop a detailed written program and schedule for the implementation of any additional engineering controls and work practices necessary to reduce exposure to or below the permissible exposure limit.
(iv) Written plans for such programs shall be submitted, upon request, to the Secretary and the Director, and shall be available at the worksite for examination and copying by the Secretary, the Director, and the authorized employee representative. The plans required under paragraph (f)(6) of this section shall be revised and updated at least annually to reflect the current status of the program.
