§ 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
(2) Other ropes. (i) Heavy wear and/or broken wires may occur in sections in contact with equalizer sheaves or other sheaves where rope travel is limited, or with saddles. Particular care shall be taken to inspect ropes at these locations.
(ii) All rope which has been idle for a period of a month or more due to shutdown or storage of a crane on which it is installed shall be given a thorough inspection before it is used. This inspection shall be for all types of deterioration and shall be performed by an appointed or authorized person whose approval shall be required for further use of the rope. A certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection, and an identifier for the rope which was inspected shall be prepared and kept readily available.
(iii) Particular care shall be taken in the inspection of nonrotating rope.
(h) Handling the load —(1) Size of load. (i) No crane shall be loaded beyond the rated load, except for test purposes as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(ii) When loads which are limited by structural competence rather than by stability are to be handled, it shall be ascertained that the weight of the load has been determined within plus or minus 10 percent before it is lifted.
(2) Attaching the load. (i) The hoist rope shall not be wrapped around the load.
(ii) The load shall be attached to the hook by means of slings or other approved devices.
(3) Moving the load. (i) The employer shall assure that:
( a ) The crane is level and where necessary blocked properly.
( b ) The load is well secured and properly balanced in the sling or lifting device before it is lifted more than a few inches.
(ii) Before starting to hoist, the following conditions shall be noted:
( a ) Hoist rope shall not be kinked.
( b ) Multiple part lines shall not be twisted around each other.
( c ) The hook shall be brought over the load in such a manner as to prevent swinging.
(iii) During hoisting care shall be taken that:
( a ) There is no sudden acceleration or deceleration of the moving load.
( b ) The load does not contact any obstructions.
