§ 1910.1026 Chromium (VI).
(ii) The employer shall ensure that employees do not enter eating and drinking areas with protective work clothing or equipment unless surface chromium (VI) has been removed from the clothing and equipment by methods that do not disperse chromium (VI) into the air or onto an employee's body.
(5) Prohibited activities. The employer shall ensure that employees do not eat, drink, smoke, chew tobacco or gum, or apply cosmetics in regulated areas, or in areas where skin or eye contact with chromium (VI) occurs; or carry the products associated with these activities, or store such products in these areas.
(j) Housekeeping —(1) General. The employer shall ensure that:
(i) All surfaces are maintained as free as practicable of accumulations of chromium (VI).
(ii) All spills and releases of chromium (VI) containing material are cleaned up promptly.
(2) Cleaning methods. (i) The employer shall ensure that surfaces contaminated with chromium (VI) are cleaned by HEPA-filter vacuuming or other methods that minimize the likelihood of exposure to chromium (VI).
(ii) Dry shoveling, dry sweeping, and dry brushing may be used only where HEPA-filtered vacuuming or other methods that minimize the likelihood of exposure to chromium (VI) have been tried and found not to be effective.
(iii) The employer shall not allow compressed air to be used to remove chromium (VI) from any surface unless:
(A) The compressed air is used in conjunction with a ventilation system designed to capture the dust cloud created by the compressed air; or
(B) No alternative method is feasible.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that cleaning equipment is handled in a manner that minimizes the reentry of chromium (VI) into the workplace.
(3) Disposal. The employer shall ensure that:
(i) Waste, scrap, debris, and any other materials contaminated with chromium (VI) and consigned for disposal are collected and disposed of in sealed, impermeable bags or other closed, impermeable containers.
(ii) Bags or containers of waste, scrap, debris, and any other materials contaminated with chromium (VI) that are consigned for disposal are labeled in accordance with the requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1200.
