§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(viii) Provision shall be made for expansion, contraction, jarring, and vibration, and for settling. This may be accomplished by flexible connections.
(10) Pumps and accessories. All pumps and accessory equipment shall be suitable for LP-Gas service, and designed for not less than the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected. Accessories shall have a minimum rated working pressure of 250 p.s.i.g. Positive displacement pumps shall be equipped with suitable pressure actuated bypass valves permitting flow from pump discharge to storage container or pump suction.
(11) Dispensing devices. (i) Meters, vapor separators, valves, and fittings in the dispenser shall be suitable for LP-Gas service and shall be designed for a minimum working pressure of 250 p.s.i.g.
(ii) Provisions shall be made for venting LP-Gas contained in a dispensing device to a safe location.
(iii) Pumps used to transfer LP-Gas shall be equipped to allow control of the flow and to prevent leakage or accidental discharge. Means shall be provided outside the dispensing device to readily shut off the power in the event of fire or accident.
(iv) A manual shutoff valve and an excess flow check valve shall be installed downstream of the pump and ahead of the dispenser inlet.
(v)( a ) Dispensing hose shall be resistant to the action of LP-Gas in the liquid phase and designed for a minimum bursting pressure of 1,250 p.s.i.g.
( b ) An excess flow check valve or automatic shutoff valve shall be installed at the terminus of the liquid line at the point of attachment of the dispensing hose.
(vi)( a ) LP-Gas dispensing devices shall be located not less than 10 feet from aboveground storage containers greater than 2,000 gallons water capacity. The dispensing devices shall not be less than 20 feet from any building (not including canopies), basement, cellar, pit, or line of adjoining property which may be built upon and not less than 10 feet from sidewalks, streets, or thoroughfares. No drains or blowoff lines shall be directed into or in proximity to the sewer systems used for other purposes.
