§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( b ) Vaporizers having an inside diameter of 6 inches or less exempted by the ASME Unfired Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code—1968 shall have a design pressure not less than 250 p.s.i.g. and need not be permanently marked. ( c ) Heating or cooling coils shall not be installed inside a storage container. ( d ) Vaporizers may be installed in buildings, rooms, sheds, or lean-tos used exclusively for gas manufacturing or distribution, or in other structures of light, noncombustible construction or equivalent, well ventilated near the floor line and roof. When vaporizing and/or mixing equipment is located in a structure or building not used exclusively for gas manufacturing or distribution, either attached to or within such a building, such structure or room shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a wall designed to withstand a static pressure of at least 100 pounds per square foot. This wall shall have no openings or pipe or conduit passing through it. Such structure or room shall be provided with adequate ventilation and shall have a roof or at least one exterior wall of lightweight construction. ( e ) Vaporizers shall have, at or near the discharge, a safety relief valve providing an effective rate of discharge in accordance with paragraph (b)(10)(iii) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(v)( a ), of this section. ( f ) The heating medium lines into and leaving the vaporizer shall be provided with suitable means for preventing the flow of gas into the heat systems in the event of tube rupture in the vaporizer. Vaporizers shall be provided with suitable automatic means to prevent liquid passing through the vaporizers to the gas discharge piping. ( g ) The device that supplies the necessary heat for producing steam, hot water, or other heating medium may be installed in a building, compartment, room, or lean-to which shall be ventilated near the floorline and roof to the outside. The device location shall be separated from all compartments or rooms containing liquefied petroleum gas vaporizers, pumps, and central gas mixing devices by a wall designed to withstand a static pressure of at least 100 pounds per square foot. This wall shall have no openings or pipes or conduit passing through it. This requirement does not apply to the domestic water