§ 1910.28 Duty to have fall protection and falling object protection.
(A) A hinged floor-hole cover that meets the criteria in § 1910.29 and a fixed guardrail system that leaves only one exposed side. When the hole is not in use, the employer must ensure the cover is closed or a removable guardrail system is provided on the exposed sides;
(B) A removable guardrail system and toeboards on not more than two sides of the hole and a fixed guardrail system on all other exposed sides. The employer must ensure the removable guardrail system is kept in place when the hole is not in use; or
(C) A guardrail system or a travel restraint system when a work operation necessitates passing material through a hatchway or chute floor hole.
(4) Dockboards. (i) The employer must ensure that each employee on a dockboard is protected from falling 4 feet (1.2 m) or more to a lower level by a guardrail system or handrails.
(ii) A guardrail system or handrails are not required when:
(A) Dockboards are being used solely for materials-handling operations using motorized equipment;
(B) Employees engaged in these operations are not exposed to fall hazards greater than 10 feet (3 m); and
(C) Those employees have been trained in accordance with § 1910.30.
(5) Runways and similar walkways. (i) The employer must ensure each employee on a runway or similar walkway is protected from falling 4 feet (1.2 m) or more to a lower level by a guardrail system.
(ii) When the employer can demonstrate that it is not feasible to have guardrails on both sides of a runway used exclusively for a special purpose, the employer may omit the guardrail on one side of the runway, provided the employer ensures:
(A) The runway is at least 18 inches (46 cm) wide; and
(B) Each employee is provided with and uses a personal fall arrest system or travel restraint system.
(6) Dangerous equipment. The employer must ensure:
(i) Each employee less than 4 feet (1.2 m) above dangerous equipment is protected from falling into or onto the dangerous equipment by a guardrail system or a travel restraint system, unless the equipment is covered or guarded to eliminate the hazard.
