§ 1910.211 Definitions.
(3) Mill means a machine consisting of two adjacent metal rolls, set horizontally, which revolve in opposite directions (i.e., toward each other as viewed from above) used for the mechanical working of rubber and plastics compounds.
(d) As used in § 1910.217, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following power press terms shall have the meaning prescribed in this paragraph.
(1) Antirepeat means the part of the clutch/brake control system designed to limit the press to a single stroke if the tripping means is held operated. Antirepeat requires release of all tripping mechanisms before another stroke can be initiated. Antirepeat is also called single stroke reset or reset circuit.
(2) Brake means the mechanism used on a mechanical power press to stop and/or hold the crankshaft, either directly or through a gear train, when the clutch is disengaged.
(3) Bolster plate means the plate attached to the top of the bed of the press having drilled holes or T-slots for attaching the lower die or die shoe.
(4) Clutch means the coupling mechanism used on a mechanical power press to couple the flywheel to the crankshaft, either directly or through a gear train.
(5) Full revolution clutch means a type of clutch that, when tripped, cannot be disengaged until the crankshaft has completed a full revolution and the press slide a full stroke.
(6) Part revolution clutch means a type of clutch that can be disengaged at any point before the crankshaft has completed a full revolution and the press slide a full stroke.
(7) Direct drive means the type of driving arrangement wherein no clutch is used; coupling and decoupling of the driving torque is accomplished by energization and deenergization of a motor. Even though not employing a clutch, direct drives match the operational characteristics of "part revolution clutches" because the driving power may be disengaged during the stroke of the press.
(8) Concurrent means acting in conjunction, and is used to describe a situation wherein two or more controls exist in an operated condition at the same time.
(9) Continuous means uninterrupted multiple strokes of the slide without intervening stops (or other clutch control action) at the end of individual strokes.
(10) Counterbalance means the mechanism that is used to balance or support the weight of the connecting rods, slide, and slide attachments.
