§ 1910.430 Equipment.
(ii) Be made of kink-resistant materials; and
(iii) Have a working pressure greater than the pressure equivalent to the maximum depth of the dive (relative to the supply source) plus 100 psi.
(d) Buoyancy control. (1) Helmets or masks connected directly to the dry suit or other buoyancy-changing equipment shall be equipped with an exhaust valve.
(2) A dry suit or other buoyancy-changing equipment not directly connected to the helmet or mask shall be equipped with an exhaust valve.
(3) When used for SCUBA diving, a buoyancy compensator shall have an inflation source separate from the breathing gas supply.
(4) An inflatable flotation device capable of maintaining the diver at the surface in a face-up position, having a manually activated inflation source independent of the breathing supply, an oral inflation device, and an exhaust valve shall be used for SCUBA diving.
(e) Compressed gas cylinders. Compressed gas cylinders shall:
(1) Be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the applicable provisions of 29 CFR 1910.101 and 1910.169 through 1910.171.
(2) Be stored in a ventilated area and protected from excessive heat;
(3) Be secured from falling; and
(4) Have shut-off valves recessed into the cylinder or protected by a cap, except when in use or manifolded, or when used for SCUBA diving.
(f) Decompression chambers. (1) Each decompression chamber manufactured after the effective date of this standard, shall be built and maintained in accordance with the ASME Code or equivalent.
(2) Each decompression chamber manufactured prior to the effective date of this standard shall be maintained in conformity with the code requirements to which it was built, or equivalent.
(3) Each decompression chamber shall be equipped with:
(i) Means to maintain the atmosphere below a level of 25 percent oxygen by volume;
(ii) Mufflers on intake and exhaust lines, which shall be regularly inspected and maintained;
(iii) Suction guards on exhaust line openings; and
(iv) A means for extinguishing fire, and shall be maintained to minimize sources of ignition and combustible material.
(g) Gauges and timekeeping devices. (1) Gauges indicating diver depth which can be read at the dive location shall be used for all dives except SCUBA.
