§ 1910.1029 Coke oven emissions.
(iv) Footwear providing insulation from hot surfaces for footwear;
(v) Safety shoes which comply with § 1910.136 of this part; and
(vi) Protective helmets which comply with § 1910.135 of this part.
(2) Cleaning and replacement. (i) The employer shall provide the protective clothing required by paragraphs (h)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section in a clean and dry condition at least weekly.
(ii) The employer shall clean, launder, or dispose of protective clothing required by paragraphs (h)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section.
(iii) The employer shall repair or replace the protective clothing and equipment as needed to maintain their effectiveness.
(iv) The employer shall assure that all protective clothing is removed at the completion of a work shift only in change rooms prescribed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(v) The employer shall assure that contaminated protective clothing which is to be cleaned, laundered, or disposed of, is placed in a closable container in the change room.
(vi) The employer shall inform any person who cleans or launders protective clothing required by this section, of the potentially harmful effects of exposure to coke oven emissions.
(i) Hygiene facilities and practices —(1) Change rooms. The employer shall provide clean change rooms equipped with storage facilities for street clothes and separate storage facilities for protective clothing and equipment whenever employees are required to wear protective clothing and equipment in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
(2) Showers. (i) The employer shall assure that employees working in the regulated area shower at the end of the work shift.
(ii) The employer shall provide shower facilities in accordance with § 1910.141(d)(3) of this part.
(3) Lunchrooms. The employer shall provide lunchroom facilities which have a temperature controlled, positive pressure, filtered air supply, and which are readily accessible to employees working in the regulated area.
(4) Lavatories. (i) The employer shall assure that employees working in the regulated area wash their hands and face prior to eating.
(ii) The employer shall provide lavatory facilities in accordance with § 1910.141(d) (1) and (2) of this part.
