§ 1910.1048 Formaldehyde.
(i) The examination shall include a medical and work history with emphasis on any evidence of upper or lower respiratory problems, allergic conditions, skin reaction or hypersensitivity, and any evidence of eye, nose, or throat irritation.
(ii) Other examinations shall consist of those elements considered appropriate by the examining physician.
(6) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician:
(i) A copy of this standard and appendix A, C, D, and E;
(ii) A description of the affected employee's job duties as they relate to the employee's exposure to formaldehyde;
(iii) The representative exposure level for the employee's job assignment;
(iv) Information concerning any personal protective equipment and respiratory protection used or to be used by the employee; and
(v) Information from previous medical examinations of the affected employee within the control of the employer.
(vi) In the event of a nonroutine examination because of an emergency, the employer shall provide to the physician as soon as possible: A description of how the emergency occurred and the exposure the victim may have received.
(7) Physician's written opinion. (i) For each examination required under this standard, the employer shall obtain a written opinion from the examining physician. This written opinion shall contain the results of the medical examination except that it shall not reveal specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure to formaldehyde. The written opinion shall include:
(A) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any medical condition that would place the employee at an increased risk of material impairment of health from exposure to formaldehyde;
(B) Any recommended limitations on the employee's exposure or changes in the use of personal protective equipment, including respirators;
(C) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of any medical conditions which would be aggravated by exposure to formaldehyde, whether these conditions may have resulted from past formaldehyde exposure or from exposure in an emergency, and whether there is a need for further examination or treatment.
(ii) The employer shall provide for retention of the results of the medical examination and tests conducted by the physician.
(iii) The employer shall provide a copy of the physician's written opinion to the affected employee within 15 days of its receipt.
