§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
(3) For combination or universal woodworking machines each point of operation of any tool shall be guarded as required for such a tool in a separate machine.
(4) The mention of specific machines in paragraphs (a) thru (q) and this paragraph (r) of this section, inclusive, is not intended to exclude other woodworking machines from the requirement that suitable guards and exhaust hoods be provided to reduce to a minimum the hazard due to the point of operation of such machines.
(s) Inspection and maintenance of woodworking machinery. (1) Dull, badly set, improperly filed, or improperly tensioned saws shall be immediately removed from service, before they begin to cause the material to stick, jam, or kick back when it is fed to the saw at normal speed. Saws to which gum has adhered on the sides shall be immediately cleaned.
(2) All knives and cutting heads of woodworking machines shall be kept sharp, properly adjusted, and firmly secured. Where two or more knives are used in one head, they shall be properly balanced.
(3) Bearings shall be kept free from lost motion and shall be well lubricated.
(4) Arbors of all circular saws shall be free from play.
(5) Sharpening or tensioning of saw blades or cutters shall be done only by persons of demonstrated skill in this kind of work.
(6) Emphasis is placed upon the importance of maintaining cleanliness around woodworking machinery, particularly as regards the effective functioning of guards and the prevention of fire hazards in switch enclosures, bearings, and motors.
(7) All cracked saws shall be removed from service.
(8) The practice of inserting wedges between the saw disk and the collar to form what is commonly known as a "wobble saw" shall not be permitted.
(9) Push sticks or push blocks shall be provided at the work place in the several sizes and types suitable for the work to be done.
(10)-(11) [Reserved]
(12) The knife blade of jointers shall be so installed and adjusted that it does not protrude more than one-eighth inch beyond the cylindrical body of the head. Push sticks or push blocks shall be provided at the work place in the several sizes and types suitable for the work to be done.
