§ 1910.243 Guarding of portable powered tools.
(vii) Fasteners shall not be driven into very hard or brittle materials including, but not limited to, cast iron, glazed tile, surface-hardened steel, glass block, live rock, face brick, or hollow tile.
(viii) Driving into materials easily penetrated shall be avoided unless such materials are backed by a substance that will prevent the pin or fastener from passing completely through and creating a flying-missile hazard on the other side.
(ix)( a ) Fasteners shall not be driven directly into materials such as brick or concrete closer than 3 inches from the unsupported edge or corner, or into steel surfaces closer than one-half inch from the unsupported edge or corner, unless a special guard, fixture, or jig is used. (Exception: Low-velocity tools may drive no closer than 2 inches from an edge in concrete or one-fourth inch in steel.)
( b ) When fastening other materials, such as a 2- by 4-inch wood section to a concrete surface, it is permissible to drive a fastener of no greater than 7/32 -inch shank diameter not closer than 2 inches from the unsupported edge or corner of the work surface.
(x) Fasteners shall not be driven through existing holes unless a positive guide is used to secure accurate alignment.
(xi) No fastener shall be driven into a spalled area caused by an unsatisfactory fastening.
(xii) Tools shall not be used in an explosive or flammable atmosphere.
(xiii) All tools shall be used with the correct shield, guard, or attachment recommended by the manufacturer.
(xiv) Any tool found not in proper working order shall be immediately removed from service. The tool shall be inspected at regular intervals and shall be repaired in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications.
(e) Power lawnmowers —(1) General requirements. (i) Power lawnmowers of the walk-behind, riding-rotary, and reel power lawnmowers shall be guarded in accordance with the machine guarding requirements in 29 CFR 1910.212, General requirements for all machines.
(ii) All power-driven chains, belts, and gears shall be so positioned or otherwise guarded to prevent the operator's accidental contact therewith, during normal starting, mounting, and operation of the machine.
