§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
(2) Signs and labels —(i) Signs. (A) The employer shall post and maintain legible signs demarcating regulated areas and entrances or access ways to regulated areas that bear the following legend:
(B) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (k)(2)(i)(A) of this section:
(ii) Labels. Prior to June 1, 2015, employers may include the following information workplace labels in lieu of the labeling requirements in paragraph (k)(1) of this section:
(3) Safety data sheets (SDS). In meeting the obligation to provide safety data sheets, employers shall make appropriate use of the information found in Appendices A and B to § 1910.1050.
(4) Information and training. (i) The employer shall provide employees with information and training on MDA, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1200(h), at the time of initial assignment and at least annually thereafter.
(ii) In addition to the information required under 29 CFR 1910.1200, the employer shall:
(A) Provide an explanation of the contents of this section, including appendices A and B, and indicate to employees where a copy of the standard is available;
(B) Describe the medical surveillance program required under paragraph (m) of this section, and explain the information contained in appendix C; and
(C) Describe the medical removal provision required under paragraph (m) of this section.
(5) Access to training materials. (i) The employer shall make readily available to all affected employees, without cost, all written materials relating to the employee training program, including a copy of this regulation.
(ii) The employer shall provide to the Assistant Secretary and the Director, upon request, all information and training materials relating to the employee information and training program.
(l) Housekeeping. (1) All surfaces shall be maintained as free as practicable of visible accumulations of MDA.
(2) The employer shall institute a program for detecting MDA leaks, spills, and discharges, including regular visual inspections of operations involving liquid or solid MDA.
(3) All leaks shall be repaired and liquid or dust spills cleaned up promptly.
(4) Surfaces contaminated with MDA may not be cleaned by the use of compressed air.
