§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
(4) Surfacers or planers used in thicknessing multiple pieces of material simultaneously shall be provided with sectional infeed rolls having sufficient yield in the construction of the sections to provide feeding contact pressure on the stock, over the permissible range of variation in stock thickness specified or for which the machine is designed. In lieu of such yielding sectional rolls, suitable section kickback finger devices shall be provided at the infeed end.
(o) Profile and swing-head lathes and wood heel turning machine. (1) Each profile and swing-head lathe shall have all cutting heads covered by a metal guard. If such a guard is constructed of sheet metal, the material used shall be not less than one-sixteenth inch in thickness; and if cast iron is used, it shall not be less than three-sixteenths inch in thickness.
(2) Cutting heads on wood-turning lathes, whether rotating or not, shall be covered as completely as possible by hoods or shields.
(3) Shoe last and spoke lathes, doweling machines, wood heel turning machines, and other automatic wood-turning lathes of the rotating knife type shall be equipped with hoods enclosing the cutter blades completely except at the contact points while the stock is being cut.
(4) Lathes used for turning long pieces of wood stock held only between the two centers shall be equipped with long curved guards extending over the tops of the lathes in order to prevent the work pieces from being thrown out of the machines if they should become loose.
(5) Where an exhaust system is used, the guard shall form part or all of the exhaust hood and shall be constructed of metal of a thickness not less than that specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.
(p) Sanding machines. (1) Feed rolls of self-feed sanding machines shall be protected with a semicylindrical guard to prevent the hands of the operator from coming in contact with the in-running rolls at any point. The guard shall be constructed of heavy material, preferably metal, and firmly secured to the frame carrying the rolls so as to remain in adjustment for any thickness of stock. The bottom of the guard should come down to within three-eighths inch of a plane formed by the bottom or contact face of the feed roll where it touches the stock.
