§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
§ 1910.213 Woodworking machinery requirements.
(a) Machine construction general. (1) Each machine shall be so constructed as to be free from sensible vibration when the largest size tool is mounted and run idle at full speed.
(2) Arbors and mandrels shall be constructed so as to have firm and secure bearing and be free from play.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) Any automatic cutoff saw that strokes continuously without the operator being able to control each stroke shall not be used.
(5) Saw frames or tables shall be constructed with lugs cast on the frame or with an equivalent means to limit the size of the saw blade that can be mounted, so as to avoid overspeed caused by mounting a saw larger than intended.
(6) Circular saw fences shall be so constructed that they can be firmly secured to the table or table assembly without changing their alignment with the saw. For saws with tilting tables or tilting arbors the fence shall be so constructed that it will remain in a line parallel with the saw, regardless of the angle of the saw with the table.
(7) Circular saw gages shall be so constructed as to slide in grooves or tracks that are accurately machined, to insure exact alignment with the saw for all positions of the guide.
(8) Hinged saw tables shall be so constructed that the table can be firmly secured in any position and in true alignment with the saw.
(9) All belts, pulleys, gears, shafts, and moving parts shall be guarded in accordance with the specific requirements of § 1910.219.
(10) It is recommended that each power-driven woodworking machine be provided with a disconnect switch that can be locked in the off position.
(11) The frames and all exposed, noncurrent-carrying metal parts of portable electric woodworking machinery operated at more than 90 volts to ground shall be grounded and other portable motors driving electric tools which are held in the hand while being operated shall be grounded if they operate at more than 90 volts to ground. The ground shall be provided through use of a separate ground wire and polarized plug and receptacle.
