§ 1910.104 Oxygen.
(ix) Flammable gas storage. (Such as compressed flammable gases, liquefied flammable gases and flammable gases in low pressure gas holders):

Distance (feet) Capacity (cu. ft. NTP)
--------------------------------------
50 Less than 5000.
90 5000 or more.

(x) Highly combustible materials. Fifty feet from solid materials which burn rapidly, such as excelsior or paper.
(xi) Slow-burning materials. Twenty-five feet from solid materials which burn slowly, such as coal and heavy timber.
(xii) Ventilation. Seventy-five feet in one direction and 35 feet in approximately 90 degrees direction from confining walls (not including firewalls less than 20 feet high) to provide adequate ventilation in courtyards and similar confining areas.
(xiii) Congested areas. Twenty-five feet from congested areas such as offices, lunchrooms, locker rooms, time clock areas, and similar locations where people may congregate.
(xiv)-(xvii) [Reserved]
(xviii) Exceptions. The distances in paragraphs (b)(3) (ii), (iii), (v) to (xi) inclusive, of this section do not apply where protective structures such as firewalls of adequate height to safeguard the oxygen storage systems are located between the bulk oxygen storage installation and the exposure. In such cases, the bulk oxygen storage installation may be a minimum distance of 1 foot from the firewall.
(4) Storage containers —(i) Foundations and supports. Permanently installed containers shall be provided with substantial noncombustible supports on firm noncombustible foundations.
(ii) Construction—liquid. Liquid oxygen storage containers shall be fabricated from materials meeting the impact test requirements of paragraph UG-84 of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VIII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6. Containers operating at pressures above 15 pounds per square inch gage (p.s.i.g.) shall be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with appropriate requirements of ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, section VII—Unfired Pressure Vessels—1968. Insulation surrounding the liquid oxygen container shall be noncombustible.
