§ 1910.181 Derricks.
( f ) A good communication system shall be set up between the hoist operator and the appointed individual in charge of derrick operations before any work on the equipment is started.
(ii) After adjustments and repairs have been made the derrick shall not be operated until all guards have been reinstalled, safety devices reactivated, and maintenance equipment removed.
(3) Adjustments and repairs. (i) Any unsafe conditions disclosed by inspection shall be corrected before operation of the derrick is resumed.
(ii) Adjustments shall be maintained to assure correct functioning of components.
(iii) Repairs or replacements shall be provided promptly as needed for safe operation. The following are examples of conditions requiring prompt repair or replacement:
( a ) Hooks showing defects described in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section shall be discarded.
( b ) All critical parts which are cracked, broken, bent, or excessively worn.
( c ) [Reserved]
( d ) All replacement and repaired parts shall have at least the original safety factor.
(g) Rope inspection —(1) Running ropes. A thorough inspection of all ropes in use shall be made at least once a month and a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection, and an identifier for the ropes which were inspected shall be prepared and kept on file where readily available. Any deterioration, resulting in appreciable loss of original strength shall be carefully observed and determination made as to whether further use of the rope would constitute a safety hazard. Some of the conditions that could result in an appreciable loss of strength are the following:
(i) Reduction of rope diameter below nominal diameter due to loss of core support, internal or external corrosion, or wear of outside wires.
(ii) A number of broken outside wires and the degree of distribution or concentration of such broken wires.
(iii) Worn outside wires.
(iv) Corroded or broken wires at end connections.
(v) Corroded, cracked, bent, worn, or improperly applied end connections.
(vi) Severe kinking, crushing, cutting, or unstranding.
