§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
(3) Description of a system. A system shall include the container base or bracket, containers, container valves, connectors, manifold valve assembly, regulators, and relief valves.
(4) Containers and regulating equipment installed outside of buildings or structures. (i) Containers shall not be buried below ground. However, this shall not prohibit the installation in a compartment or recess below grade level such as a niche in a slope or terrace wall which is used for no other purpose, providing that the container and regulating equipment are not in contact with the ground and the compartment or recess is drained and ventilated horizontally to the outside air from its lowest level, with the outlet at least 3 feet away from any building opening which is below the level of such outlet.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(10)(xiii) of this section, the discharge from safety relief devices shall be located not less than 3 feet horizontally away from any building opening which is below the level of such discharge and shall not terminate beneath any building unless such space is well ventilated to the outside and is not enclosed on more than two sides.
(ii) Containers shall be set upon firm foundation or otherwise firmly secured; the possible effect on the outlet piping of settling shall be guarded against by a flexible connection or special fitting.
(5) Containers and equipment used inside of buildings or structures. (i) When operational requirements make portable use of containers necessary and their location outside of buildings or structure is impracticable, containers and equipment are permitted to be used inside of buildings or structures in accordance with ( a ) through ( l ) of this subdivision, and, in addition, such other provisions of this subparagraph as are applicable to the particular use or occupancy.
( a ) Containers in use shall mean connected for use.
( b ) Systems utilizing containers having a water capacity greater than 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) shall be equipped with excess flow valves. Such excess flow valves shall be either integral with the container valves or in the connections to the container valve outlets. In either case, an excess flow valve shall be installed in such a manner that any undue strain beyond the excess flow valve will not cause breakage between the container and the excess flow valve. The installation of excess flow valves shall take into account the type of valve protection provided.
