§ 1910.184 Slings.
(c) Safe operating practices. Whenever any sling is used, the following practices shall be observed:
(1) Slings that are damaged or defective shall not be used.
(2) Slings shall not be shortened with knots or bolts or other makeshift devices.
(3) Sling legs shall not be kinked.
(4) Slings shall not be loaded in excess of their rated capacities.
(5) Slings used in a basket hitch shall have the loads balanced to prevent slippage.
(6) Slings shall be securely attached to their loads.
(7) Slings shall be padded or protected from the sharp edges of their loads.
(8) Suspended loads shall be kept clear of all obstructions.
(9) All employees shall be kept clear of loads about to be lifted and of suspended loads.
(10) Hands or fingers shall not be placed between the sling and its load while the sling is being tightened around the load.
(11) Shock loading is prohibited.
(12) A sling shall not be pulled from under a load when the load is resting on the sling.
(13) Employers must not load a sling in excess of its recommended safe working load as prescribed by the sling manufacturer on the identification markings permanently affixed to the sling.
(14) Employers must not use slings without affixed and legible identification markings.
(d) Inspections. Each day before being used, the sling and all fastenings and attachments shall be inspected for damage or defects by a competent person designated by the employer. Additional inspections shall be performed during sling use, where service conditions warrant. Damaged or defective slings shall be immediately removed from service.
(e) Alloy steel chain slings —(1) Sling identification. Alloy steel chain slings shall have permanently affixed durable identification stating size, grade, rated capacity, and reach.
(2) Attachments. (i) Hooks, rings, oblong links, pear shaped links, welded or mechanical coupling links or other attachments shall have a rated capacity at least equal to that of the alloy steel chain with which they are used or the sling shall not be used in excess of the rated capacity of the weakest component.
(ii) Makeshift links or fasteners formed from bolts or rods, or other such attachments, shall not be used.
