§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
( c ) Binders shall be released only from the side on which the unloader operates, except when released by remote control devices or except when person making release is protected by racks or stanchions or other equivalent means.
( d ) Loads on which a binder is fouled by the unloading machine shall have an extra binder or metal band of equal strength placed around the load, or the load shall be otherwise secured so the fouled binder can be safely removed.
(ii) Unloading equipment and facilities. ( a ) Machines used for hoisting, unloading, or lowering logs shall be equipped with brakes capable of controlling or holding the maximum load in midair.
( b ) The lifting cylinders of all hydraulically operated log handling machines shall be equipped with a positive device for preventing the uncontrolled lowering of the load or forks in case of a failure in the hydraulic system.
( c ) A limit switch shall be installed on powered log handling machines to prevent the lift arms from traveling too far in the event the control switch is not released in time.
( d ) When forklift-type machines are used to load trailers, a means of securing the loading attachment to the fork shall be installed and used.
( e ) A-frames and similar log unloading devices shall have adequate height to provide safe clearance for swinging loads and to provide for adequate crotch lines and spreader bar devices.
( f ) Log handling machines used to stack logs or lift loads above operator's head shall be equipped with adequate overhead protection.
( g ) All mobile log handling machines shall be equipped with headlights and backup lights.
( h ) Unloading devices shall be equipped with a horn or other plainly audible signaling device.
( i ) Movement of unloading equipment shall be coordinated by audible or hand signals when operator's vision is impaired or operating in the vicinity of other employees.
( j ) Wood pike poles shall be made of straight-grained, select material. Metal or conductive pike poles shall not be used around exposed energized electrical conductors. Defective, blunt, or dull pike poles shall not be used.
(2) Log unloading and storage areas —(i) General. ( a ) Log dumps, booms, ponds, or storage areas used at night shall be illuminated in accordance with the requirements of American National Standard A11.1-1965 (R-1970) Standard Practice for Industrial Lighting, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
