§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(ii) Bandsaw wheels. ( a ) No bandsaw wheel shall be run at a peripheral speed in excess of that recommended by the manufacturer. The manufacturer's recommended maximum speed shall be stamped in plainly legible figures on some portion of the wheel.
( b ) Band head saw wheels shall be subjected to monthly inspections. Hubs, spokes, rims, bolts, and rivets shall be thoroughly examined in the course of such inspections. A loose or damaged hub, a rim crack, or loose spokes shall make the wheel unfit for service.
( c ) Band wheels shall be completely encased or guarded, except for a portion of the upper wheel immediately around the point where the blade leaves the wheel, to permit operator to observe movement of equipment. Necessary ventilating and observation ports may be permitted. Substantial doors or gates are allowed for repair, lubrication, and saw changes; such doors or gates shall be closed securely during operation. Band head rigs shall be equipped with a saw catcher or guard of substantial construction.
(iii) Single circular head saws. ( a ) Circular head saws shall not be operated at speeds in excess of those specified by the manufacturer. Maximum speed shall be etched on the saw.
( b ) Circular head saws shall be equipped with safety guides which can be readily adjusted without use of hand tools.
( c ) The upper saw of a double circular mill shall be provided with a substantial hood or guard. A screen or other suitable device shall be placed so as to protect the sawyer from flying particles.
( d ) All circular sawmills where live rolls are not used behind the head saw shall be equipped with a spreader wheel or splitter.
(iv) Twin circular head saws. Twin circular head saws rigs such as scrag saws shall meet the specifications for single circular head saws in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section where applicable.
(v) Whole-log sash gang saws (Swedish gangs). ( a ) Cranks, pitman rods, and other moving parts shall be adequately guarded.
( b ) Feed rolls shall be enclosed by a cover over the top, front, and open ends except where guarded by location. Drive mechanism to feed rolls shall be enclosed.
( c ) Carriage cradles of whole-log sash gang saws (Swedish gangs), shall be of adequate height to prevent logs from kicking out while being loaded.
