§ 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
(6) Lead burning. When lead burning is being done within tanks, fresh air shall be forced into the tanks so that fresh air will reach the face of the worker first and the direction of the current will never be from the source of the fumes toward the face of the workers. Supplied air respirators (constant-flow type) shall be provided. (7) Hoops for acid storage tanks. Hoops of tanks shall be made of rods rather than flat strips and shall be safely maintained by scheduled inspections. (8) Chip and sawdust bins. Steam or compressed-air lances, or other facilities, shall be used for breaking down the arches caused by jamming in chip lofts. No worker shall be permitted to enter a bin unless provided with a safety belt, with line attached, and an attendant stationed at the bin to summon assistance. (9) Exits (digester building). At least one unobstructed exit at each end of the room shall be provided on each floor of a digester building. (10) Gas masks (digester building). Gas masks must be available, and they must furnish adequate protection against sulfurous acid and chlorine gases and be inspected and repaired in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134. (11) Elevators. (i) Elevators shall be constructed in accordance with American National Standard A17.1—1965. (ii) Elevators shall be equipped with gas masks for the maximum number of passengers. (iii) Elevators shall be equipped with an alarm system to advise of failure. (12) Blowoff valves and piping. (i) The blowoff valve of a digester shall be arranged so as to be operated from another room, remote from safety valves. (ii) Through bolts instead of cap bolts shall be used on all digester pipings. (iii) Heavy duty pipe, valves, and fittings shall be used between the digester and blow pit. These valves, fittings, and pipes shall be inspected at least semiannually to determine the degree of deterioration. (iv) Digester blow valves shall be pinned or locked in closed position throughout the entire cooking period. (13) Blow pits and blow tanks. (i) Blow-pit openings preferably shall be on the side of the pit instead of on the top. Openings shall be as small as possible when located on top, and shall be protected in accordance with subpart D of this