§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( b ) The fusible metal of the fuse plugs shall have a yield temperature of 208 degrees F. minimum and 220 degrees F. maximum. Relief valves and fuse plugs shall have direct communication with the vapor space of the container.
( c ) On a container having a water capacity greater than 125 gallons, but not over 2,000 gallons, the discharge from the safety relief valves shall be vented away from the container vertically upwards and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container; loose-fitting rain caps shall be used. Suitable provision shall be made for draining condensate which may accumulate in the relief valve or its discharge pipe.
( d ) On containers of 125 gallons water capacity or less, the discharge from safety relief devices shall be located not less than 5 feet horizontally away from any opening into the building below the level of such discharge.
( e ) On a container having a water capacity greater than 2,000 gallons, the discharge from the safety relief valves shall be vented away from the container vertically upwards to a point at least 7 feet above the container, and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container; loose-fitting rain caps shall be used. Suitable provision shall be made so that any liquid or condensate that may accumulate inside of the safety relief valve or its discharge pipe will not render the valve inoperative. If a drain is used, a means shall be provided to protect the container, adjacent containers, piping, or equipment against impingement of flame resulting from ignition of product escaping from the drain.
(iii) On all containers which are installed underground and which contain no liquid fuel until buried and covered, the rate of discharge of the spring-loaded relief valve installed thereon may be reduced to a minimum of 30 percent of the rate of discharge specified in paragraph (b)(10)(ii) of this section. Containers so protected shall not be uncovered after installation until the liquid fuel has been removed therefrom. Containers which may contain liquid fuel before being installed under ground and before being completely covered with earth are to be considered aboveground containers when determining the rate of discharge requirement of the relief valves.
