§ 1910.215 Abrasive wheel machinery.
( c ) Adaptor flanges (see Figures O-33 and O-34);
(v) Regardless of flange type used, the wheel shall always be guarded. Blotters shall be used in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
EC27OC91.066 Figure No. O-24
The Type 27 A Wheel is mounted between flat non-relieved flanges of equal bearing surfaces.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Finish and balance. Flanges shall be dimensionally accurate and in good balance. There shall be no rough surfaces or sharp edges.
(4) Uniformity of diameter. (i) Both flanges, of any type, between which a wheel is mounted, shall be of the same diameter and have equal bearing surface. Exceptions are set forth in the remaining subdivisions of this subparagraph.
(ii) Type 27 and Type 28 wheels, because of their shape and usage, require specially designed adaptors. The back flange shall extend beyond the central hub or raised portion and contact the wheel to counteract the side pressure on the wheel in use. The adaptor nut which is less than the minimum one-third diameter of wheel fits in the depressed side of wheel to prevent interference in side grinding and serves to drive the wheel by its clamping force against the depressed portion of the back flange. The variance in flange diameters, the adaptor nut being less than one-third wheel diameter, and the use of side pressure in wheel operation limits the use to reinforced organic bonded wheels. Mounts which are affixed to the wheel by the manufacturer shall not be reused. Type 27 and Type 28 wheels shall be used only with a safety guard located between wheel and operator during use. (See Figure O-24-A.)
EC27OC91.067 Figure No. O-24-A
Types 27 and 28 wheels, because of their shape, require specially designed adaptors.
(iii) Modified Types 6 and 11 wheels (terrazzo) with tapered K dimension.
(5) Recess and undercut. (i) Straight relieved flanges made according to Table O-6 and Figure O-32 shall be recessed at least one-sixteenth inch on the side next to the wheel for a distance as specified in Table O-6.
