§ 1910.219 Mechanical power-transmission apparatus.
(2) Belt shippers and shipper poles. The use of belt poles as substitutes for mechanical shifters is not recommended.
(3) Belt perches. Where loose pulleys or idlers are not practicable, belt perches in form of brackets, rollers, etc., shall be used to keep idle belts away from the shafts.
(4) Belt fasteners. Belts which of necessity must be shifted by hand and belts within seven (7) feet of the floor or working platform which are not guarded in accordance with this section shall not be fastened with metal in any case, nor with any other fastening which by construction or wear will constitute an accident hazard.
(m) Standard guards—general requirements —(1) Materials. (i) Standard conditions shall be secured by the use of the following materials. Expanded metal, perforated or solid sheet metal, wire mesh on a frame of angle iron, or iron pipe securely fastened to floor or to frame of machine.
(ii) All metal should be free from burrs and sharp edges.
(2) Methods of manufacture. (i) Expanded metal, sheet or perforated metal, and wire mesh shall be securely fastened to frame.
(ii) [Reserved]
(n) [Reserved]
(o) Approved materials —(1) Minimum requirements. The materials and dimensions specified in this paragraph shall apply to all guards, except horizontal overhead belts, rope, cable, or chain guards more than seven (7) feet above floor, or platform.
(i) [Reserved]
( a ) All guards shall be rigidly braced every three (3) feet or fractional part of their height to some fixed part of machinery or building structure. Where guard is exposed to contact with moving equipment additional strength may be necessary.
( b ) [Reserved]
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) Wood guards. (i) Wood guards may be used in the woodworking and chemical industries, in industries where the presence of fumes or where manufacturing conditions would cause the rapid deterioration of metal guards; also in construction work and in locations outdoors where extreme cold or extreme heat make metal guards and railings undesirable. In all other industries, wood guards shall not be used.
(ii) [Reserved]
