§ 1910.1017 Vinyl chloride.
(1) Employees engaged in hazardous operations or correcting situations of existing hazardous releases shall be equipped as required in paragraph (h) of this section;
(2) Other employees not so equipped shall evacuate the area and not return until conditions are controlled by the methods required in paragraph (f) of this section and the emergency is abated.
(j) Training. Each employee engaged in vinyl chloride or polyvinyl chloride operations shall be provided training in a program relating to the hazards of vinyl chloride and precautions for its safe use.
(1) The program shall include:
(i) The nature of the health hazard from chronic exposure to vinyl chloride including specifically the carcinogenic hazard;
(ii) The specific nature of operations which could result in exposure to vinyl chloride in excess of the permissible limit and necessary protective steps;
(iii) The purpose for, proper use, and limitations of respiratory protective devices;
(iv) The fire hazard and acute toxicity of vinyl chloride, and the necessary protective steps;
(v) The purpose for and a description of the monitoring program;
(vi) The purpose for, and a description of, the medical surveillance program;
(vii) Emergency procedures;
(viii) Specific information to aid the employee in recognition of conditions which may result in the release of vinyl chloride; and
(ix) A review of this standard at the employee's first training and indoctrination program, and annually thereafter.
(2) All materials relating to the program shall be provided upon request to the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(k) Medical surveillance. A program of medical surveillance shall be instituted for each employee exposed, without regard to the use of respirators, to vinyl chloride in excess of the action level. The program shall provide each such employee with an opportunity for examinations and tests in accordance with this paragraph. All medical examinations and procedures shall be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, and shall be provided without cost to the employee.
(1) At the time of initial assignment, or upon institution of medical surveillance;
(i) A general physical examination shall be performed, with specific attention to detecting enlargement of liver, spleen or kidneys, or dysfunction in these organs, and for abnormalities in skin, connective tissues and the pulmonary system (See appendix A).
(ii) A medical history shall be taken, including the following topics:
(A) Alcohol intake;
(B) Past history of hepatitis;
