§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
( 3 ) Providing ground mats to extend areas of equipotential, and
( 4 ) Employing insulating protective equipment or barricades to guard against any remaining hazardous electrical potential differences.
Note: Note to paragraph ( p )(4)( iii )(C): Appendix C to this section contains information on hazardous step and touch potentials and on methods of protecting employees from hazards resulting from such potentials.
(q) Overhead lines and live-line barehand work. This paragraph provides additional requirements for work performed on or near overhead lines and equipment and for live-line barehand work.
(1) General. (i) Before allowing employees to subject elevated structures, such as poles or towers, to such stresses as climbing or the installation or removal of equipment may impose, the employer shall ascertain that the structures are capable of sustaining the additional or unbalanced stresses. If the pole or other structure cannot withstand the expected loads, the employer shall brace or otherwise support the pole or structure so as to prevent failure.
Note: Note to paragraph ( q )(1)( i ): Appendix D to this section contains test methods that employers can use in ascertaining whether a wood pole is capable of sustaining the forces imposed by an employee climbing the pole. This paragraph also requires the employer to ascertain that the pole can sustain all other forces imposed by the work employees will perform.
(ii) When a pole is set, moved, or removed near an exposed energized overhead conductor, the pole may not contact the conductor.
(iii) When a pole is set, moved, or removed near an exposed energized overhead conductor, the employer shall ensure that each employee wears electrical protective equipment or uses insulated devices when handling the pole and that no employee contacts the pole with uninsulated parts of his or her body.
(iv) To protect employees from falling into holes used for placing poles, the employer shall physically guard the holes, or ensure that employees attend the holes, whenever anyone is working nearby.
(2) Installing and removing overhead lines. The following provisions apply to the installation and removal of overhead conductors or cable (overhead lines).
