§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
( f ) Guards shall be used to protect all areas of entry to the point of operation not protected by the presence sensing device. (iv) The pull-out device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( b ) of this section, and shall include attachments for each of the operator's hands. ( a ) Attachments shall be connected to and operated only by the press slide or upper die. ( b ) Attachments shall be adjusted to prevent the operator from reaching into the point of operation or to withdraw the operator's hands from the point of operation before the dies close. ( c ) A separate pull-out device shall be provided for each operator if more than one operator is used on a press. ( d ) Each pull-out device in use shall be visually inspected and checked for proper adjustment at the start of each operator shift, following a new die set-up, and when operators are changed. Necessary maintenance or repair or both shall be performed and completed before the press is operated. Records of inspections and maintenance shall be kept in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. (v) The sweep device may not be used for point of operation safeguarding. (vi) A holdout or a restraint device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( c ) of this section and shall include attachments for each of the operator's hands. Such attachments shall be securely anchored and adjusted in such a way that the operator is restrained from reaching into the point of operation. A separate set of restraints shall be provided for each operator if more than one operator is required on a press. (vii) The two hand control device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( e ) of this section. ( a ) When used in press operations requiring more than one operator, separate two hand controls shall be provided for each operator, and shall be designed to require concurrent application of all operators' controls to activate the slide. The removal of a hand from any control button shall cause the slide to stop. ( b ) Each two hand control shall meet the construction requirements of paragraph (b)(7)(v) of this section. ( c ) The safety distance (D s ) between each two hand control device and the point of operation shall be greater than the distance determined by the following formula: D s = 63 inches/second x T