§ 1910.1003 13 Carcinogens (4-Nitrobiphenyl, etc.).
(3) Prohibited statements. No statement shall appear on or near any required sign, label, or instruction that contradicts or detracts from the effect of any required warning, information, or instruction.
(4) Training and indoctrination. (i) Each employee prior to being authorized to enter a regulated area, shall receive a training and indoctrination program including, but not necessarily limited to:
(A) The nature of the carcinogenic hazards of a carcinogen addressed by this section, including local and systemic toxicity;
(B) The specific nature of the operation involving a carcinogen addressed by this section that could result in exposure;
(C) The purpose for and application of the medical surveillance program, including, as appropriate, methods of self-examination;
(D) The purpose for and application of decontamination practices and purposes;
(E) The purpose for and significance of emergency practices and procedures;
(F) The employee's specific role in emergency procedures;
(G) Specific information to aid the employee in recognition and evaluation of conditions and situations which may result in the release of a carcinogen addressed by this section;
(H) The purpose for and application of specific first aid procedures and practices;
(I) A review of this section at the employee's first training and indoctrination program and annually thereafter.
(ii) Specific emergency procedures shall be prescribed, and posted, and employees shall be familiarized with their terms, and rehearsed in their application.
(iii) All materials relating to the program shall be provided upon request to authorized representatives of the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Medical surveillance. At no cost to the employee, a program of medical surveillance shall be established and implemented for employees considered for assignment to enter regulated areas, and for authorized employees.
(1) Examinations. (i) Before an employee is assigned to enter a regulated area, a preassignment physical examination by a physician shall be provided. The examination shall include the personal history of the employee, family and occupational background, including genetic and environmental factors.
(ii) Authorized employees shall be provided periodic physical examinations, not less often than annually, following the preassignment examination.
