§ 1910.155 Scope, application and definitions applicable to this subpart.
(21) Foam means a stable aggregation of small bubbles which flow freely over a burning liquid surface and form a coherent blanket which seals combustible vapors and thereby extinguishes the fire.
(22) Gaseous agent is a fire extinguishing agent which is in the gaseous state at normal room temperature and pressure. It has low viscosity, can expand or contract with changes in pressure and temperature, and has the ability to diffuse readily and to distribute itself uniformly throughout an enclosure.
(23) Halon 1211 means a colorless, faintly sweet smelling, electrically nonconductive liquefied gas (chemical formula CBrC1F 2 ) which is a medium for extinguishing fires by inhibiting the chemical chain reaction of fuel and oxygen. It is also known as bromochlorodifluoromethane.
(24) Halon 1301 means a colorless, odorless, electrically nonconductive gas (chemical formula CBrF 3 ) which is a medium for extinguishing fires by inhibiting the chemical chain reaction of fuel and oxygen. It is also known as bromotrifluoromethane.
(25) Helmet is a head protective device consisting of a rigid shell, energy absorption system, and chin strap intended to be worn to provide protection for the head or portions thereof, against impact, flying or falling objects, electric shock, penetration, heat and flame.
(26) Incipient stage fire means a fire which is in the initial or beginning stage and which can be controlled or extinguished by portable fire extinguishers, Class II standpipe or small hose systems without the need for protective clothing or breathing apparatus.
(27) Inspection means a visual check of fire protection systems and equipment to ensure that they are in place, charged, and ready for use in the event of a fire.
(28) Interior structural fire fighting means the physical activity of fire suppression, rescue or both, inside of buildings or enclosed structures which are involved in a fire situation beyond the incipient stage.
(29) Lining means a material permanently attached to the inside of the outer shell of a garment for the purpose of thermal protection and padding.
