§ 1910.21 Scope and definitions.
refusal is the point at which the ultimate strength of a component or object is exceeded. Fall hazard means any condition on a walking-working surface that exposes an employee to a risk of harm from a fall on the same level or to a lower level. Fall protection means any equipment, device, or system that prevents an employee from falling from an elevation or mitigates the effect of such a fall. Fixed ladder means a ladder with rails or individual rungs that is permanently attached to a structure, building, or equipment. Fixed ladders include individual-rung ladders, but not ship stairs, step bolts, or manhole steps. Grab bar means an individual horizontal or vertical handhold installed to provide access above the height of the ladder. Guardrail system means a barrier erected along an unprotected or exposed side, edge, or other area of a walking-working surface to prevent employees from falling to a lower level. Handrail means a rail used to provide employees with a handhold for support. Hoist area means any elevated access opening to a walking-working surface through which equipment or materials are loaded or received. Hole means a gap or open space in a floor, roof, horizontal walking-working surface, or similar surface that is at least 2 inches (5 cm) in its least dimension. Individual-rung ladder means a ladder that has rungs individually attached to a building or structure. An individual- rung ladder does not include manhole steps. Ladder means a device with rungs, steps, or cleats used to gain access to a different elevation. Ladder safety system means a system designed to eliminate or reduce the possibility of falling from a ladder. A ladder safety system usually consists of a carrier, safety sleeve, lanyard, connectors, and body harness. Cages and wells are not ladder safety systems. Low-slope roof means a roof that has a slope less than or equal to a ratio of 4 in 12 (vertical to horizontal). Lower level means a surface or area to which an employee could fall. Such surfaces or areas include, but are not limited to, ground levels, floors, roofs, ramps, runways, excavations, pits, tanks, materials, water, equipment, and similar surfaces and structures, or portions thereof. Manhole steps means steps that are individually attached to, or set into, the wall of a manhole structure. Maximum intended load means the total load (weight and force) of all employees, equipment, vehicles, tools,