§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
(iii) Ventilation. ( a ) Ventilation shall be provided for all rooms, buildings, or enclosures in which Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), are pumped or dispensed. Design of ventilation systems shall take into account the relatively high specific gravity of the vapors. Ventilation may be provided by adequate openings in outside walls at floor level unobstructed except by louvers or coarse screens. Where natural ventilation is inadequate, mechanical ventilation shall be provided.
( b ) Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), shall not be stored or handled within a building having a basement or pit into which flammable vapors may travel, unless such area is provided with ventilation designed to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors therein.
( c ) Containers of Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), shall not be drawn from or filled within buildings unless provision is made to prevent the accumulation of flammable vapors in hazardous concentrations. Where mechanical ventilation is required, it shall be kept in operation while flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C) are being handled.
(3) Loading and unloading facilities — (i) Separation. Tank vehicle and tank car loading or unloading facilities shall be separated from aboveground tanks, warehouses, other plant buildings or nearest line of adjoining property that may be built upon by a distance of 25 feet for Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), and 15 feet for Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint at or above 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C) and Category 4 flammable liquids measured from the nearest position of any fill spout. Buildings for pumps or shelters for personnel may be a part of the facility.
