§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(ii) Portable containers used to dispense drinking water shall be capable of being tightly closed, and equipped with a tap. Water shall not be dipped from containers.
(iii) Any container used to distribute drinking water shall be clearly marked as to the nature of its contents and not used for any other purpose.
(iv) Where single service cups (to be used but once) are supplied, both a sanitary container for the unused cups and a receptacle for disposing of the used cups shall be provided.
(2) Nonpotable water. (i) Outlets for nonpotable water, such as water for firefighting purposes, shall be identified to indicate clearly that the water is unsafe and is not to be used for drinking, washing, or cooking purposes.
(ii) There shall be no cross-connection, open or potential, between a system furnishing potable water and a system furnishing nonpotable water.
(3) Toilet facilities. (i) Toilets shall be provided for employees according to the following Table H-120.2.

Table H-120.2—Toilet Facilities
-------------------------------
Number of employees Minimum number of facilities
------------------------------------------------
20 or fewer One.
More than 20, fewer than 200 One toilet seat and one urinal per 40 employees.
More than 200 One toilet seat and one urinal per 50 employees.

(ii) Under temporary field conditions, provisions shall be made to assure that at least one toilet facility is available.
(iii) Hazardous waste sites not provided with a sanitary sewer shall be provided with the following toilet facilities unless prohibited by local codes:
(A) Chemical toilets;
(B) Recirculating toilets;
(C) Combustion toilets; or
(D) Flush toilets.
(iv) The requirements of this paragraph for sanitation facilities shall not apply to mobile crews having transportation readily available to nearby toilet facilities.
(v) Doors entering toilet facilities shall be provided with entrance locks controlled from inside the facility.
