§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
(iii) So far as it applies. Table H-19 shall be used to delineate and classify hazardous areas for the purpose of installation of electrical equipment under normal circumstances. A classified area shall not extend beyond an unpierced wall, roof, or other solid partition.
(iv) The area classifications listed shall be based on the assumption that the installation meets the applicable requirements of this section in all respects.
(6) Heating equipment —(i) Conformance. Heating equipment shall be installed as provided in paragraphs (g)(6) (ii) through (v) of this section.
(ii) Application. Heating equipment may be installed in the conventional manner in an area except as provided in paragraph (g)(6) (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section.
(iii) Special room. Heating equipment may be installed in a special room separated from an area classified by Table H-19 by walls having a fire resistance rating of at least 1 hour and without any openings in the walls within 8 feet of the floor into an area classified in Table H-19. This room shall not be used for combustible storage and all air for combustion purposes shall come from outside the building.
(iv) Work areas. Heating equipment using gas or oil fuel may be installed in the lubrication, sales, or service room where there is no dispensing or transferring of Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids or 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), provided the bottom of the combustion chamber is at least 18 inches above the floor and the heating equipment is protected from physical damage by vehicles. Heating equipment using gas or oil fuel listed for use in garages may be installed in the lubrication or service room where Category 1 or 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C), are dispensed provided the equipment is installed at least 8 feet above the floor.
(v) Electric heat. Electrical heating equipment shall conform to paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
