§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
(8) Refrigeration load and equipment. (i) The total refrigeration load shall be computed as the sum of the following:
( a ) Load imposed by heat flow into the container caused by the temperature differential between design ambient temperature and storage temperature.
( b ) Load imposed by heat flow into the container caused by maximum sun radiation.
( c ) Maximum load imposed by filling the container with ammonia warmer than the design storage temperature.
(ii) More than one storage container may be handled by the same refrigeration system.
(9) Compressors. (i) A minimum of two compressors shall be provided either of which shall be of sufficient size to handle the loads listed in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) ( a ) and ( b ) of this section. Where more than two compressors are provided minimum standby equipment equal to the largest normally operating equipment shall be installed. Filling compressors may be used as standby equipment for holding compressors.
(ii) Compressors shall be sized to operate with a suction pressure at least 10 percent below the minimum setting of the safety valve(s) on the storage container and shall withstand a suction pressure at least equal to 120 percent of the design pressure of the container.
(10) Compressor drives. (i) Each compressor shall have its individual driving unit.
(ii) An emergency source of power of sufficient capacity to handle the loads listed in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) ( a ) and ( b ) of this section shall be provided unless facilities are available to safely dispose of vented vapors while the refrigeration system is not operating.
(11) Automatic control equipment. (i) The refrigeration system shall be arranged with suitable controls to govern the compressor operation in accordance with the load as evidenced by the pressure in the container(s).
(ii) An emergency alarm system shall be installed to function in the event the pressure in the container(s) rises to the maximum allowable operating pressure.
(iii) An emergency alarm and shutoff shall be located in the condenser system to respond to excess discharge pressure caused by failure of the cooling medium.
(iv) All automatic controls shall be installed in a manner to preclude operation of alternate compressors unless the controls will function with the alternate compressors.
