§ 1910.181 Derricks.
(4) Derricks not in regular use. (i) A derrick which has been idle for a period of 1 month or more, but less than 6 months, shall be given an inspection conforming with requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and paragraph (g)(3) of this section before placing in service.
(ii) A derrick which has been idle for a period of over 6 months shall be given a complete inspection conforming with requirements of paragraphs (d) (2) and (3) of this section and paragraph (g)(3) of this section before placing in service.
(iii) Standby derricks shall be inspected at least semiannually in accordance with requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(e) Testing —(1) Operational tests. Prior to initial use all new and altered derricks shall be tested to insure compliance with this section including the following functions:
(i) Load hoisting and lowering.
(ii) Boom up and down.
(iii) Swing.
(iv) Operation of clutches and brakes of hoist.
(2) Anchorages. All anchorages shall be approved by the appointed person. Rock and hairpin anchorages may require special testing.
(f) Maintenance —(1) Preventive maintenance. A preventive maintenance program based on the derrick manufacturer's recommendations shall be established.
(2) Maintenance procedure. (i) Before adjustments and repairs are started on a derrick the following precautions shall be taken:
( a ) The derrick to be repaired shall be arranged so it will cause the least interference with other equipment and operations in the area.
( b ) All hoist drum dogs shall be engaged.
( c ) The main or emergency switch shall be locked in the open position, if an electric hoist is used.
( d ) Warning or out of order signs shall be placed on the derrick and hoist.
( e ) The repairs of booms of derricks shall either be made when the booms are lowered and adequately supported or safely tied off.
( f ) A good communication system shall be set up between the hoist operator and the appointed individual in charge of derrick operations before any work on the equipment is started.
