§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
( b ) The operator shall be trained in the safe operation of the vehicle together with its mixing, conveying, and related equipment. He shall be familiar with the commodities being delivered and the general procedure for handling emergency situations.
( c ) The hauling of either blasting caps or other explosives, but not both, shall be permitted on bulk trucks provided that a special wood or nonferrous-lined container is installed for the explosives. Such blasting caps or other explosives shall be in DOT-specified shipping containers; see 49 CFR chapter I.
( d ) No person shall be allowed to smoke, carry matches or any flame-producing device, or carry any firearms while in or about bulk vehicles effecting the mixing, transfer, or down-the-hole loading of water gels at or near the blasting site.
( e ) Caution shall be exercised in the movement of the vehicle in the blasting area to avoid driving the vehicle over or dragging hoses over firing lines, cap wires, or explosive materials. The employer shall furnish the driver the assistance of a second person to guide the driver's movements.
( f ) No intransit mixing of materials shall be performed.
( g ) The location chosen for water gel or ingredient transfer from a support vehicle into the borehole loading vehicle shall be away from the blasthole site when the boreholes are loaded or in the process of being loaded.
(i) Storage of ammonium nitrate —(1) Scope and definitions. (i)( a ) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1)(i)( d ) of this paragraph applies to the storage of ammonium nitrate in the form of crystals, flakes, grains, or prills including fertilizer grade, dynamite grade, nitrous oxide grade, technical grade, and other mixtures containing 60 percent or more ammonium nitrate by weight but does not apply to blasting agents.
( b ) This paragraph does not apply to the transportation of ammonium nitrate.
( c ) This paragraph does not apply to storage under the jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations of the U.S. Coast Guard (see 46 CFR parts 146-149).
( d ) The storage of ammonium nitrate and ammonium nitrate mixtures that are more sensitive than allowed by the "Definition of Test Procedures for Ammonium Nitrate Fertilizer" is prohibited.
(ii)( a ) [Reserved]
