§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(ii) Covers the wearer's eyes, nose, and mouth to protect from splashes, sprays, and spatter of body fluids, wraps around the sides of the wearer's face ( i.e., temple-to-temple), and extends below the wearer's chin. Filtering facepiece respirator means a negative pressure particulate respirator with a non-replaceable filter as an integral part of the facepiece or with the entire facepiece composed of the non-replaceable filtering medium. Fully vaccinated means 2 weeks or more following the final dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. Hand hygiene means the cleaning and/or disinfecting of one's hands by using standard handwashing methods with soap and running water or an alcohol-based hand rub that is at least 60% alcohol. Healthcare services mean services that are provided to individuals by professional healthcare practitioners ( e.g., doctors, nurses, emergency medical personnel, oral health professionals) for the purpose of promoting, maintaining, monitoring, or restoring health. Healthcare services are delivered through various means including: Hospitalization, long-term care, ambulatory care, home health and hospice care, emergency medical response, and patient transport. For the purposes of this section, healthcare services include autopsies. Healthcare support services mean services that facilitate the provision of healthcare services. Healthcare support services include patient intake/admission, patient food services, equipment and facility maintenance, housekeeping services, healthcare laundry services, medical waste handling services, and medical equipment cleaning/reprocessing services. High-touch surfaces and equipment means any surface or piece of equipment that is repeatedly touched by more than one person ( e.g., doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, tables, phones, keyboards, tools, toilets, faucets, sinks, credit card terminals, touchscreen-enabled devices). Physical location means a site (including outdoor and indoor areas, a structure, or a group of structures) or an area within a site where work or any work-related activity ( e.g., taking breaks, going to the restroom, eating, entering, or exiting work) occurs. A physical location includes the entirety of any space associated with the site ( e.g., workstations, hallways, stairwells, breakrooms, bathrooms, elevators) and any other space that an employee might occupy in arriving, working,