§ 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
(B) To conduct such examinations, consultations, laboratory tests, and discussions with the prior physicians as the third physician deems necessary to resolve the disagreement of the prior physicians.
(v) The employer shall act consistent with the findings, determinations, and recommendations of the third physician, unless the employer and the employee reach an agreement which is otherwise consistent with the recommendations of at least one of the three physicians.
(7) Information provided to the examining and consulting physicians. (i) The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician:
(A) A copy of this regulation and its appendices;
(B) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's potential exposure to MDA;
(C) The employee's current actual or representative MDA exposure level;
(D) A description of any personal protective equipment used or to be used; and
(E) Information from previous employment-related medical examinations of the affected employee.
(ii) The employer shall provide the foregoing information to a second physician under this section upon request either by the second physician, or by the employee.
(8) Physician's written opinion. (i) For each examination under this section, the employer shall obtain, and provide the employee with a copy of, the examining physician's written opinion within 15 days of its receipt. The written opinion shall include the following:
(A) The occupationally-pertinent results of the medical examination and tests;
(B) The physician's opinion concerning whether the employee has any detected medical conditions which would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment of health from exposure to MDA;
(C) The physician's recommended limitations upon the employee's exposure to MDA or upon the employee's use of protective clothing or equipment and respirators; and
(D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and any medical conditions resulting from MDA exposure which require further explanation or treatment.
(ii) The written opinion obtained by the employer shall not reveal specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposures.
