§ 1910.134 Respiratory protection.
(j) Identification of filters, cartridges, and canisters. The employer shall ensure that all filters, cartridges and canisters used in the workplace are labeled and color coded with the NIOSH approval label and that the label is not removed and remains legible.
(k) Training and information. This paragraph requires the employer to provide effective training to employees who are required to use respirators. The training must be comprehensive, understandable, and recur annually, and more often if necessary. This paragraph also requires the employer to provide the basic information on respirators in appendix D of this section to employees who wear respirators when not required by this section or by the employer to do so.
(1) The employer shall ensure that each employee can demonstrate knowledge of at least the following:
(i) Why the respirator is necessary and how improper fit, usage, or maintenance can compromise the protective effect of the respirator;
(ii) What the limitations and capabilities of the respirator are;
(iii) How to use the respirator effectively in emergency situations, including situations in which the respirator malfunctions;
(iv) How to inspect, put on and remove, use, and check the seals of the respirator;
(v) What the procedures are for maintenance and storage of the respirator;
(vi) How to recognize medical signs and symptoms that may limit or prevent the effective use of respirators; and
(vii) The general requirements of this section.
(2) The training shall be conducted in a manner that is understandable to the employee.
(3) The employer shall provide the training prior to requiring the employee to use a respirator in the workplace.
(4) An employer who is able to demonstrate that a new employee has received training within the last 12 months that addresses the elements specified in paragraph (k)(1)(i) through (vii) is not required to repeat such training provided that, as required by paragraph (k)(1), the employee can demonstrate knowledge of those element(s). Previous training not repeated initially by the employer must be provided no later than 12 months from the date of the previous training.
(5) Retraining shall be administered annually, and when the following situations occur:
(i) Changes in the workplace or the type of respirator render previous training obsolete;
