§ 1910.304 Wiring design and protection.
(B) The conductors are terminated at a through-the-roof raceway or approved support.
(iv) The requirement for maintaining a vertical clearance of 914 mm (3.0 ft) from the edge of the roof does not apply to the final conductor span, where the conductors are attached to the side of a building.
(d) Location of outdoor lamps. Lamps for outdoor lighting shall be located below all energized conductors, transformers, or other electric equipment, unless such equipment is controlled by a disconnecting means that can be locked in the open position, or unless adequate clearances or other safeguards are provided for relamping operations.
(e) Services —(1) Disconnecting means. (i) Means shall be provided to disconnect all conductors in a building or other structure from the service-entrance conductors. The service disconnecting means shall plainly indicate whether it is in the open or closed position and shall be installed at a readily accessible location nearest the point of entrance of the service-entrance conductors.
(ii) Each service disconnecting means shall simultaneously disconnect all ungrounded conductors.
(iii) Each service disconnecting means shall be suitable for the prevailing conditions.
(2) Services over 600 volts, nominal. The following additional requirements apply to services over 600 volts, nominal.
(i) Service-entrance conductors installed as open wires shall be guarded to make them accessible only to qualified persons.
(ii) Signs warning of high voltage shall be posted where unqualified employees might come in contact with live parts.
(f) Overcurrent protection —(1) 600 volts, nominal, or less. The following requirements apply to overcurrent protection of circuits rated 600 volts, nominal, or less.
(i) Conductors and equipment shall be protected from overcurrent in accordance with their ability to safely conduct current.
(ii) Except for motor running overload protection, overcurrent devices may not interrupt the continuity of the grounded conductor unless all conductors of the circuit are opened simultaneously.
