§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(viii) Replacement rope shall be the same size, grade, and construction as the original rope furnished by the crane manufacturer, unless otherwise recommended by a wire rope manufacturer due to actual working condition requirements.
(3) Equalizers. If a load is supported by more than one part of rope, the tension in the parts shall be equalized.
(4) Hooks. Hooks shall meet the manufacturer's recommendations and shall not be overloaded.
(i) Warning device. Except for floor-operated cranes a gong or other effective warning signal shall be provided for each crane equipped with a power traveling mechanism.
(j) Inspection —(1) Inspection classification —(i) Initial inspection. Prior to initial use all new and altered cranes shall be inspected to insure compliance with the provisions of this section.
(ii) Inspection procedure for cranes in regular service is divided into two general classifications based upon the intervals at which inspection should be performed. The intervals in turn are dependent upon the nature of the critical components of the crane and the degree of their exposure to wear, deterioration, or malfunction. The two general classifications are herein designated as "frequent" and "periodic" with respective intervals between inspections as defined below:
( a ) Frequent inspection—Daily to monthly intervals.
( b ) Periodic inspection—1 to 12-month intervals.
(2) Frequent inspection. The following items shall be inspected for defects at intervals as defined in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section or as specifically indicated, including observation during operation for any defects which might appear between regular inspections. All deficiencies such as listed shall be carefully examined and determination made as to whether they constitute a safety hazard:
(i) All functional operating mechanisms for maladjustment interfering with proper operation. Daily.
(ii) Deterioration or leakage in lines, tanks, valves, drain pumps, and other parts of air or hydraulic systems. Daily.
(iii) Hooks with deformation or cracks. Visual inspection daily; monthly inspection with a certification record which includes the date of inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and the serial number, or other identifier, of the hook inspected. For hooks with cracks or having more than 15 percent in excess of normal throat opening or more than 10 degrees twist from the plane of the unbent hook refer to paragraph (l)(3)(iii)( a ) of this section.
