§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
 Note: For pits within this area, see part F of this table.
G Pits or trenches containing or located beneath LP-Gas valves, pumps, compressors, regulators, and similar equipment
 Without mechanical ventilation Entire pit or trench Division 1.
 Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 1.
 Within 15 feet in all directions from pit or trench when located outdoors Division 2.
 With adequate mechanical ventilation Entire pit or trench Division 2.
 Entire room and any adjacent room not separated by a gastight partition Division 2.
 Within 15 feet in all directions from pit or trench when located outdoors Division 2.
H Special buildings or rooms for storage of portable containers Entire room Division 2.
 Pipelines and connections containing operational bleeds, drips, vents or drains Within 5 ft. in all directions from point of discharge Beyond 5 ft. from point of discharge, same as part E of this table Division 1.
J Container filling:
 Indoors without ventilation Entire room Division 1.
 Indoors with adequate ventilation 4 Within 5 feet in all directions from connections regularly made or disconnected for product transfer Division 1.
 Beyond 5 feet and entire room Division 2.
 Outdoors in open air Within 5 feet in all directions from connections regularly made or disconnected for product transfer Division 1.
 Beyond 5 feet but within 15 feet in all directions from a point where connections are regularly made or disconnected and within the cylindrical volume between the horizontal equator of the sphere and grade. (See Figure H-1) Division 2.

EC27OC91.025 Figure H-1
(18) Fixed electrical equipment in classified areas. Fixed electrical equipment and wiring installed within classified areas specified in Table H-28 shall comply with Table H-28 and shall be installed in accordance with subpart S of this part. This provision does not apply to fixed electrical equipment at residential or commercial installations of LP-Gas systems or to systems covered by paragraph (e) or (g) of this section.
