§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( 2 ) On internal excess flow valve.
In lieu of an excess flow valve, filling connections may be fitted with a quick-closing internal valve, which shall remain closed except during operating periods. The mechanism for such valves may be provided with a secondary control which will cause it to close automatically in case of fire. When a fusible plug is used its melting point shall not exceed 220 degrees F.
(ii) A filling pipe inlet terminal not on the container shall be fitted with a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with either;
( a ) A black pressure check valve, or
( b ) An excess flow check valve.
(iii) All openings in the container except those listed below shall be equipped with approved excess flow check valves:
( a ) Filling connections as provided in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.
( b ) Safety relief connections as provided in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section.
( c ) Liquid-level gaging devices as provided in paragraphs (b)(7)(iv) and (19)(iv) of this section.
( d ) Pressure gage connections as provided in paragraph (b)(7)(v) of this section.
(iv) All container inlets and outlets except those listed below shall be labeled to designate whether they connect with vapor or liquid (labels may be on valves):
( a ) Safety relief valves.
( b ) Liquid-level gaging devices.
( c ) Pressure gages.
(v) Each storage container shall be provided with a suitable pressure gage.
(4) Safety-relief valves. (i) All safety-relief devices shall be installed as follows:
( a ) On the container and directly connected with the vapor space.
( b ) Safety-relief valves and discharge piping shall be protected against physical damage. The outlet shall be provided with loose-fitting rain caps. There shall be no return bends or restrictions in the discharge piping.
( c ) The discharge from two or more safety relief valves having the same pressure settings may be run into a common discharge header. The cross-sectional area of such header shall be at least equal to the sum of the cross-sectional areas of the individual discharges.
( d ) Discharge from any safety relief device shall not terminate in any building nor beneath any building.
(ii) Aboveground containers shall be provided with safety relief valves as follows:
