§ 1910.211 Definitions.
(57) Two-hand trip means a clutch actuating means requiring the concurrent use of both hands of the operator to trip the press.
(58) Unitized tooling means a type of die in which the upper and lower members are incorporated into a selfcontained unit so arranged as to hold the die members in alignment.
(59) Control system means sensors, manual input and mode selection elements, interlocking and decision-making circuitry, and output elements to the press operating mechanism.
(60) Brake monitor means a sensor designed, constructed, and arranged to monitor the effectiveness of the press braking system.
(61) Presence sensing device initiation means an operating mode of indirect manual initiation of a single stroke by a presence sensing device when it senses that work motions of the operator, related to feeding and/or removing parts, are completed and all parts of the operator's body or hand tools are safely clear of the point of operation.
(62) Safety system means the integrated total system, including the pertinent elements of the press, the controls, the safeguarding and any required supplemental safeguarding, and their interfaces with the operator, and the environment, designed, constructed and arranged to operate together as a unit, such that a single failure or single operating error will not cause injury to personnel due to point of operation hazards.
(63) Authorized person means one to whom the authority and responsibility to perform a specific assignment has been given by the employer.
(64) Certification or certify means, in the case of design certification/validation, that the manufacturer has reviewed and tested the design and manufacture, and in the case of installation certification/validation and annual recertification/revalidation, that the employer has reviewed and tested the installation, and concludes in both cases that the requirements of § 1910.217 (a) through (h) and appendix A have been met. The certifications are made to the validation organization.
(65) Validation or validate means for PSDI safety systems that an OSHA recognized third-party validation organization:
