§ 1910.1024 Beryllium.
(D) Process control, such as wet methods and automation.
(iii) An employer is exempt from using the controls listed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this standard to the extent that:
(A) The employer can establish that such controls are not feasible; or
(B) The employer can demonstrate that airborne exposure is below the action level, using no fewer than two representative personal breathing zone samples taken at least 7 days apart, for each affected operation.
(3) Prohibition of rotation. The employer must not rotate employees to different jobs to achieve compliance with the PELs.
(g) Respiratory protection —(1) General. The employer must provide respiratory protection at no cost to the employee and ensure that each employee uses respiratory protection:
(i) During periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work practice controls where airborne exposure exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the TWA PEL or STEL;
(ii) During operations, including maintenance and repair activities and non-routine tasks, when engineering and work practice controls are not feasible and airborne exposure exceeds, or can reasonably be expected to exceed, the TWA PEL or STEL;
(iii) During operations for which an employer has implemented all feasible engineering and work practice controls when such controls are not sufficient to reduce airborne exposure to or below the TWA PEL or STEL;
(iv) During emergencies; and
(v) When an employee who is eligible for medical removal under paragraph (l)(1) chooses to remain in a job with airborne exposure at or above the action level, as permitted by paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this standard.
(2) Respiratory protection program. Where this standard requires an employer to provide respiratory protection, the selection and use of such respiratory protection must be in accordance with the Respiratory Protection standard (§ 1910.134).
(3) The employer must provide at no cost to the employee a powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) instead of a negative pressure respirator when:
(i) Respiratory protection is required by this standard;
(ii) An employee entitled to such respiratory protection requests a PAPR; and
(iii) The PAPR provides adequate protection to the employee in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this standard.
