§ 1910.1043 Cotton dust.
(v) Information from previous medical examinations of the affected employee which is not readily available to the examining physician.
(5) Physician's written opinion. (i) The employer shall obtain and furnish the employee with a copy of a written opinion from the examining physician containing the following:
(A) The results of the medical examination and tests including the FEV 1 , FVC, AND FEV 1 /FVC ratio;
(B) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical conditions which would place the employee at increased risk of material impairment of the employee's health from exposure to cotton dust;
(C) The physician's recommended limitations upon the employee's exposure to cotton dust or upon the employee's use of respirators including a determination of whether an employee can wear a negative pressure respirator, and where the employee cannot, a determination of the employee's ability to wear a powered air purifying respirator; and,
(D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and any medical conditions which require further examination or treatment.
(ii) The written opinion obtained by the employer shall not reveal specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure.
(i) Employee education and training —(1) Training program. (i) The employer shall train each employee exposed to cotton dust in accordance with the requirements of this section. The employer shall institute a training program and ensure employee participation in the program.
(ii) The training program shall be provided prior to initial assignment and shall be repeated annually for each employee exposed to cotton dust, when job assignments or work processes change and when employee performance indicates a need for retraining.
(2) Access to training materials. (i) Each employer shall post a copy of this section with its appendices in a public location at the workplace, and shall, upon request, make copies available to employees.
(ii) The employer shall provide all materials relating to the employee training and information program to the Assistant Secretary and the Director upon request.
(j) Signs. (1) The employer shall post the following warning sign in each work area where the permissible exposure limit for cotton dust is exceeded:
(2) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section:
