§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(ix) Provisions shall be made to prevent the piling of stocks of explosives directly against masonry walls, brick-lined or sand-filled metal walls and single-thickness metal walls; such protection, however, shall not interfere with proper ventilation at the interior of side and end walls.
(4) Construction of Class II magazines. (i) Class II magazines shall be of wood or metal construction, or a combination thereof.
(ii) Wood magazines of this class shall have sides, bottom, and cover constructed of 2-inch hardwood boards well braced at corners and protected by being entirely covered with sheet metal of not less than No. 20 gage. All nails exposed to the interior of the magazine shall be well countersunk. All metal magazines of this class shall have sides, bottom, and cover constructed of sheet metal, and shall be lined with three-eighths-inch plywood or equivalent. Edges of metal covers shall overlap sides at least 1 inch.
(iii) Covers for both wood- and metal-constructed magazines of this class shall be provided with substantial strap hinges and shall be provided with substantial means for locking.
(iv) Magazines of this class shall be painted red and shall bear lettering in white, on all sides and top, at least 3 inches high, "Explosives—Keep Fire Away." Class II magazines when located in warehouses, and in wholesale and retail establishments shall be provided with substantial wheels or casters to facilitate easy removal in the case of fire. Where necessary due to climatic conditions, Class II magazines shall be ventilated.
(5) Storage within magazines. (i) Packages of explosives shall be laid flat with top side up. Black powder when stored in magazines with other explosives shall be stored separately. Black powder stored in kegs shall be stored on ends, bungs down, or on side, seams down. Corresponding grades and brands shall be stored together in such a manner that brands and grade marks show. All stocks shall be stored so as to be easily counted and checked. Packages of explosives shall be piled in a stable manner. When any kind of explosive is removed from a magazine for use, the oldest explosive of that particular kind shall always be taken first.
