§ 1910.241 Definitions.
(8) Protective shield or guard. A device or guard attached to the muzzle end of the tool, which is designed to confine flying particles.
(b) Abrasive wheel terms —(1) Mounted wheels. Mounted wheels, usually 2-inch diameter or smaller, and of various shapes, may be either organic or inorganic bonded abrasive wheels. They are secured to plain or threaded steel mandrels.
(2) Tuck pointing. Removal, by grinding, of cement, mortar, or other nonmetallic jointing material.
(3) Tuck pointing wheels. Tuck pointing wheels, usually Type 1, reinforced organic bonded wheels have diameter, thickness and hole size dimension. They are subject to the same limitations of use and mounting as Type 1 wheels defined in subparagraph (10) of this paragraph.
(4) Portable grinding. A grinding operation where the grinding machine is designed to be hand held and may be easily moved from one location to another.
(5) Organic bonded wheels. Organic wheels are wheels which are bonded by means of an organic material such as resin, rubber, shellac, or other similar bonding agent.
(6) Safety guard. A safety guard is an enclosure designed to restrain the pieces of the grinding wheel and furnish all possible protection in the event that the wheel is broken in operation.
(7) Reinforced wheels. The term reinforced as applied to grinding wheels shall define a class of organic wheels which contain strengthening fabric or filament. The term reinforced does not cover wheels using such mechanical additions as steel rings, steel cup backs or wire or tape winding.
(8) Type 11 flaring cup wheels. Type 11 flaring cup wheels have double diameter dimensions D and J, and in addition have thickness, hole size, rim and back thickness dimensions. Grinding is always performed on rim face, W dimension. Type 11 wheels are subject to all limitations of use and mounting listed for Type 6 straight sided cup wheels definition in subparagraph (9) of this paragraph.
Type 11 Flaring Cup Wheels EC27OC91.078 Figure P-1
(9) Type 6 straight cup wheels. Type 6 cup wheels have diameter, thickness, hole size, rim thickness, and back thickness dimensions. Grinding is always performed on rim face, W dimension.
(10) Type 1 straight wheels. Type 1 straight wheels have diameter, thickness, and hole size dimensions and should be used only on the periphery. Type 1 wheels shall be mounted between flanges.
