§ 1910.120 Hazardous waste operations and emergency response.
(c) Site characterization and analysis —(1) General. Hazardous waste sites shall be evaluated in accordance with this paragraph to identify specific site hazards and to determine the appropriate safety and health control procedures needed to protect employees from the identified hazards.
(2) Preliminary evaluation. A preliminary evaluation of a site's characteristics shall be performed prior to site entry by a qualified person in order to aid in the selection of appropriate employee protection methods prior to site entry. Immediately after initial site entry, a more detailed evaluation of the site's specific characteristics shall be performed by a qualified person in order to further identify existing site hazards and to further aid in the selection of the appropriate engineering controls and personal protective equipment for the tasks to be performed.
(3) Hazard identification. All suspected conditions that may pose inhalation or skin absorption hazards that are immediately dangerous to life or health (IDLH), or other conditions that may cause death or serious harm, shall be identified during the preliminary survey and evaluated during the detailed survey. Examples of such hazards include, but are not limited to, confined space entry, potentially explosive or flammable situations, visible vapor clouds, or areas where biological indicators such as dead animals or vegetation are located.
(4) Required information. The following information to the extent available shall be obtained by the employer prior to allowing employees to enter a site:
(i) Location and approximate size of the site.
(ii) Description of the response activity and/or the job task to be performed.
(iii) Duration of the planned employee activity.
(iv) Site topography and accessibility by air and roads.
(v) Safety and health hazards expected at the site.
(vi) Pathways for hazardous substance dispersion.
(vii) Present status and capabilities of emergency response teams that would provide assistance to hazardous waste clean-up site employees at the time of an emergency.
(viii) Hazardous substances and health hazards involved or expected at the site, and their chemical and physical properties.
(5) Personal protective equipment. Personal protective equipment (PPE) shall be provided and used during initial site entry in accordance with the following requirements:
