§ 1910.178 Powered industrial trucks.
(h) Lighting for operating areas. (1) [Reserved]
(2) Where general lighting is less than 2 lumens per square foot, auxiliary directional lighting shall be provided on the truck.
(i) Control of noxious gases and fumes. (1) Concentration levels of carbon monoxide gas created by powered industrial truck operations shall not exceed the levels specified in § 1910.1000.
(j) Dockboards (bridge plates). See subpart D of this part.
(k) Trucks and railroad cars. (1) The brakes of highway trucks shall be set and wheel chocks placed under the rear wheels to prevent the trucks from rolling while they are boarded with powered industrial trucks.
(2) Wheel stops or other recognized positive protection shall be provided to prevent railroad cars from moving during loading or unloading operations.
(3) Fixed jacks may be necessary to support a semitrailer and prevent upending during the loading or unloading when the trailer is not coupled to a tractor.
(4) Positive protection shall be provided to prevent railroad cars from being moved while dockboards or bridge plates are in position.
(l) Operator training. (1) Safe operation. (i) The employer shall ensure that each powered industrial truck operator is competent to operate a powered industrial truck safely, as demonstrated by the successful completion of the training and evaluation specified in this paragraph (l).
(ii) Prior to permitting an employee to operate a powered industrial truck (except for training purposes), the employer shall ensure that each operator has successfully completed the training required by this paragraph (l), except as permitted by paragraph (l)(5).
(2) Training program implementation. (i) Trainees may operate a powered industrial truck only:
(A) Under the direct supervision of persons who have the knowledge, training, and experience to train operators and evaluate their competence; and
(B) Where such operation does not endanger the trainee or other employees.
(ii) Training shall consist of a combination of formal instruction (e.g., lecture, discussion, interactive computer learning, video tape, written material), practical training (demonstrations performed by the trainer and practical exercises performed by the trainee), and evaluation of the operator's performance in the workplace.
(iii) All operator training and evaluation shall be conducted by persons who have the knowledge, training, and experience to train powered industrial truck operators and evaluate their competence.
