§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
(i)-(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Ovens shall be located so that possible fire or explosion will not expose groups of persons to possible injury. For this reason ovens shall not adjoin lockers, lunch or sales rooms, main passageways, or exits.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Safeguards of mechanical parts. (i) Emergency stop buttons shall be provided on mechanical ovens near the point where operators are stationed.
(ii) All piping at ovens shall be tested to be gastight.
(iii) Main shutoff valves, operable separately from any automatic valve, shall be provided to permit turning off the fuel or steam in case of an emergency.
( a ) Main shutoff valves shall be located so that explosions, fires, etc. will not prevent access to these valves.
( b ) Main shutoff valves shall be locked in the closed position when men must enter the oven or when the oven is not in service.
(4)-(7) [Reserved]
(8) Electrical heating equipment.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) A main disconnect switch or circuit breaker shall be provided. This switch or circuit breaker shall be so located that it can be reached quickly and safely. The main switch or circuit breaker shall have provisions for locking it in the open position if any work on the electrical equipment or inside the oven must be performed.
(9) General requirements. (i) Protecting devices shall be properly maintained and kept in working order.
(ii) All safety devices on ovens shall be inspected at intervals of not less than twice a month by an especially appointed, properly instructed bakery employee, and not less than once a year by representatives of the oven manufacturers.
(iii)( a ) Protection of gas pilot lights shall be provided when it is impracticable to protect the main flame of the burner and where the pilot flame cannot contact the flame electrode without being in the path of the main flame of the burner. Failure of any gas pilot shall automatically shut off the fuel supply to the burner.
( b ) Ovens with multiple burners shall be equipped with individual atmospheric pilot lights where there is sufficient secondary air in the baking chamber and where gas is available; or else each burner shall be equipped with an electric spark-type ignition device.
