§ 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
(31) Dynamic means a method of controlling crane motor speeds when in the overhauling condition to provide a retarding force.
(32) Regenerative means a form of dynamic braking in which the electrical energy generated is fed back into the power system.
(33) Mechanical means a method of control by friction.
(34) Controller, spring return means a controller which when released will return automatically to a neutral position.
(35) Designated means selected or assigned by the employer or the employer's representative as being qualified to perform specific duties.
(36) A drift point means a point on a travel motion controller which releases the brake while the motor is not energized. This allows for coasting before the brake is set.
(37) The drum is the cylindrical member around which the ropes are wound for raising or lowering the load.
(38) An equalizer is a device which compensates for unequal length or stretch of a rope.
(39) Exposed means capable of being contacted inadvertently. Applied to hazardous objects not adequately guarded or isolated.
(40) Fail-safe means a provision designed to automatically stop or safely control any motion in which a malfunction occurs.
(41) Footwalk means the walkway with handrail, attached to the bridge or trolley for access purposes.
(42) A hoist is an apparatus which may be a part of a crane, exerting a force for lifting or lowering.
(43) Hoist chain means the load bearing chain in a hoist.
Note: Note: Chain properties do not conform to those shown in ANSI B30.9-1971, Safety Code for Slings.
(44) Hoist motion means that motion of a crane which raises and lowers a load.
(45) Load means the total superimposed weight on the load block or hook.
(46) The load block is the assembly of hook or shackle, swivel, bearing, sheaves, pins, and frame suspended by the hoisting rope.
(47) Magnet means an electromagnetic device carried on a crane hook to pick up loads magnetically.
(48) Main hoist means the hoist mechanism provided for lifting the maximum rated load.
(49) A man trolley is a trolley having an operator's cab attached thereto.
(50) Rated load means the maximum load for which a crane or individual hoist is designed and built by the manufacturer and shown on the equipment nameplate(s).
