§ 1910.1044 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane.
(a) Scope and application. (1) This section applies to occupational exposure to 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP).
(2) This section does not apply to:
(i) Exposure to DBCP which results solely from the application and use of DBCP as a pesticide; or
(ii) The storage, transportation, distribution or sale of DBCP in intact containers sealed in such a manner as to prevent exposure to DBCP vapors or liquid, except for the requirements of paragraphs (i), (n) and (o) of this section.
(b) Definitions. Authorized person means any person required by his duties to be present in regulated areas and authorized to do so by his employer, by this section, or by the Act. Authorized person also includes any person entering such areas as a designated representative of employees exercising an opportunity to observe employee exposure monitoring.
DBCP means 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane, Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number 96-12-8, and includes all forms of DBCP.
Director means the Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee.
Emergency means any occurrence such as, but not limited to equipment failure, rupture of containers, or failure of control equipment which may, or does, result in an unexpected release of DBCP.
OSHA Area Office means the Area Office of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration having jurisdiction over the geographic area where the affected workplace is located.
Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or designee.
(c) Permissible exposure limit —(1) Inhalation. The employer shall assure that no employee is exposed to an airborne concentration of DBCP in excess of 1 part DBCP per billion parts of air (ppb) as an 8-hour time-weighted average.
(2) Dermal and eye exposure. The employer shall assure that no employee is exposed to eye or skin contact with DBCP.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Regulated areas. (1) The employer shall establish, within each place of employment, regulated areas wherever DBCP concentrations are in excess of the permissible exposure limit.
(2) The employer shall limit access to regulated areas to authorized persons.
