§ 1910.1025 Lead.
(e) Methods of compliance —(1) Engineering and work practice controls. (i) Where any employee is exposed to lead above the permissible exposure limit for more than 30 days per year, the employer shall implement engineering and work practice controls (including administrative controls) to reduce and maintain employee exposure to lead in accordance with the implementation schedule in Table I below, except to the extent that the employer can demonstrate that such controls are not feasible. Wherever the engineering and work practice controls which can be instituted are not sufficient to reduce employee exposure to or below the permissible exposure limit, the employer shall nonetheless use them to reduce exposures to the lowest feasible level and shall supplement them by the use of respiratory protection which complies with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
(ii) Where any employee is exposed to lead above the permissible exposure limit, but for 30 days or less per year, the employer shall implement engineering controls to reduce exposures to 200 µg/m 3 , but thereafter may implement any combination of engineering, work practice (including administrative controls), and respiratory controls to reduce and maintain employee exposure to lead to or below 50 µg/m 3 .

Table I
-------
Industry Compliance dates: 1 (50 µg/m 3 )
-----------------------------------------
Lead chemicals, secondary copper smelting July 19, 1996.
Nonferrous foundries July 19, 1996. 2
Brass and bronze ingot manufacture 6 years. 3

(2) Respiratory protection. Where engineering and work practice controls do not reduce employee exposure to or below the 50 µg/m 3 permissible exposure limit, the employer shall supplement these controls with respirators in accordance with paragraph (f).
(3) Compliance program. (i) Each employer shall establish and implement a written compliance program to reduce exposures to or below the permissible exposure limit, and interim levels if applicable, solely by means of engineering and work practice controls in accordance with the implementation schedule in paragraph (e)(1).
(ii) Written plans for these compliance programs shall include at least the following:
