§ 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
(B) Lamps installed outside of wired-glass panels set in gas-tight frames in the exterior walls or roof of the generator house or room are acceptable.
(v) Electric switches, telephones, and all other electrical apparatus which may cause a spark, unless specifically approved for use inside acetylene generator rooms, shall be located outside the generator house or in a room or space separated from the generator room by a gas-tight partition, except that where the generator system is designed so that no carbide fill opening or other part of the generator is open to the generator house or room during the operation of the generator, and so that residue is carried in closed piping from the residue discharge valve to a point outside the generator house or room, electrical equipment in the generator house or room shall conform to the provisions of subpart S of this part for Class I, Division 2 locations.
(7) Maintenance and operation. (i) Unauthorized persons shall not be permitted in outside generator houses or inside generator rooms.
(A) Operating instructions shall be posted in a conspicuous place near the generator or kept in a suitable place available for ready reference.
(B) When recharging generators the order of operations specified in the instructions supplied by the manufacturer shall be followed.
(C) In the case of batch-type generators, when the charge of carbide is exhausted and before additional carbide is added, the generating chamber shall always be flushed out with water, renewing the water supply in accordance with the instruction card furnished by the manufacturer.
(D) The water-carbide residue mixture drained from the generator shall not be discharged into sewer pipes or stored in areas near open flames. Clear water from residue settling pits may be discharged into sewer pipes.
(ii) The carbide added each time the generator is recharged shall be sufficient to refill the space provided for carbide without ramming the charge. Steel or other ferrous tools shall not be used in distributing the charge.
(iii) Generator water chambers shall be kept filled to proper level at all times except while draining during the recharging operation.
(iv) Whenever repairs are to be made or the generator is to be charged or carbide is to be removed, the water chamber shall be filled to the proper level.
