§ 1910.126 Additional requirements for special dipping and coating operations.
(1) Bonding and grounding all metallic parts (including rotating parts) and installing static collectors; or
(2) Maintaining a conductive atmosphere (for example, one with a high relative humidity) in the vapor area.
(d) What additional requirements apply to vapor degreasing tanks? (1) You must ensure that the condenser or vapor-level thermostat keeps the vapor level at least 36 inches (91 cm) or one-half the tank width, whichever is less, below the top of the vapor degreasing tank.
(2) When you use gas as a fuel to heat the tank liquid, you must prevent solvent vapors from entering the air-fuel mixture. To do this, you must make the combustion chamber airtight (except for the flue opening).
(3) The flue must be made of corrosion-resistant material, and it must extend to the outside. You must install a draft diverter if mechanical exhaust is used on the flue.
(4) You must not allow the temperature of the heating element to cause a solvent or mixture to decompose or to generate an excessive amount of vapor.
(e) What additional requirements apply to cyanide tanks? You must ensure that cyanide tanks have a dike or other safeguard to prevent cyanide from mixing with an acid if a dip tank fails.
(f) What additional requirements apply to spray cleaning tanks and spray degreasing tanks? If you spray a liquid in the air over an open-surface cleaning or degreasing tank, you must control the spraying to the extent feasible by:
(1) Enclosing the spraying operation; and
(2) Using mechanical ventilation to provide enough inward air velocity to prevent the spray from leaving the vapor area.
(g) What additional requirements apply to electrostatic paint detearing? (1) You must use only approved electrostatic equipment in paint-detearing operations. Electrodes in such equipment must be substantial, rigidly supported, permanently located, and effectively insulated from ground by nonporous, noncombustible, clean, dry insulators.
(2) You must use conveyors to support any goods being paint deteared.
(3) You must ensure that goods being electrostatically deteared are not manually handled.
