§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(i) The equipment shall be equipped with a cord containing an equipment grounding conductor connected to the equipment frame and to a means for grounding the other end of the conductor (however, this option may not be used where the introduction of the ground into the work environment increases the hazard to an employee); or (ii) The equipment shall be of the double-insulated type conforming to subpart S of this part; or (iii) The equipment shall be connected to the power supply through an isolating transformer with an ungrounded secondary of not more than 50 volts. (3) Portable and vehicle-mounted generators. Portable and vehicle-mounted generators used to supply cord- and plug-connected equipment covered by paragraph (i)(2) of this section shall meet the following requirements: (i) The generator may only supply equipment located on the generator or the vehicle and cord- and plug-connected equipment through receptacles mounted on the generator or the vehicle. (ii) The non-current-carrying metal parts of equipment and the equipment grounding conductor terminals of the receptacles shall be bonded to the generator frame. (iii) For vehicle-mounted generators, the frame of the generator shall be bonded to the vehicle frame. (iv) Any neutral conductor shall be bonded to the generator frame. (4) Hydraulic and pneumatic tools. (i) Safe operating pressures for hydraulic and pneumatic tools, hoses, valves, pipes, filters, and fittings may not be exceeded. Note: Note to paragraph ( i )(4)( i ): If any hazardous defects are present, no operating pressure is safe, and the hydraulic or pneumatic equipment involved may not be used. In the absence of defects, the maximum rated operating pressure is the maximum safe pressure. (ii) A hydraulic or pneumatic tool used where it may contact exposed energized parts shall be designed and maintained for such use. (iii) The hydraulic system supplying a hydraulic tool used where it may contact exposed live parts shall provide protection against loss of insulating value, for the voltage involved, due to the formation of a partial vacuum in the hydraulic line. Note: Note to paragraph ( i )(4)( iii ): Use of hydraulic lines that do not have check valves and that have a separation of more than 10.7 meters (35 feet) between the oil reservoir and the upper end of the