§ 1910.28 Duty to have fall protection and falling object protection.
(4) Dockboards. (i) The employer must ensure that each employee on a dockboard is protected from falling 4 feet (1.2 m) or more to a lower level by a guardrail system or handrails.
(ii) A guardrail system or handrails are not required when:
(A) Dockboards are being used solely for materials-handling operations using motorized equipment;
(B) Employees engaged in these operations are not exposed to fall hazards greater than 10 feet (3 m); and
(C) Those employees have been trained in accordance with § 1910.30.
(5) Runways and similar walkways. (i) The employer must ensure each employee on a runway or similar walkway is protected from falling 4 feet (1.2 m) or more to a lower level by a guardrail system.
(ii) When the employer can demonstrate that it is not feasible to have guardrails on both sides of a runway used exclusively for a special purpose, the employer may omit the guardrail on one side of the runway, provided the employer ensures:
(A) The runway is at least 18 inches (46 cm) wide; and
(B) Each employee is provided with and uses a personal fall arrest system or travel restraint system.
(6) Dangerous equipment. The employer must ensure:
(i) Each employee less than 4 feet (1.2 m) above dangerous equipment is protected from falling into or onto the dangerous equipment by a guardrail system or a travel restraint system, unless the equipment is covered or guarded to eliminate the hazard.
(ii) Each employee 4 feet (1.2 m) or more above dangerous equipment must be protected from falling by:
(A) Guardrail systems;
(B) Safety net systems;
(C) Travel restraint systems; or
(D) Personal fall arrest systems.
(7) Openings. The employer must ensure that each employee on a walking-working surface near an opening, including one with a chute attached, where the inside bottom edge of the opening is less than 39 inches (99 cm) above that walking-working surface and the outside bottom edge of the opening is 4 feet (1.2 m) or more above a lower level is protected from falling by the use of:
(i) Guardrail systems;
(ii) Safety net systems;
(iii) Travel restraint systems; or,
(iv) Personal fall arrest systems.
