§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
( f ) Enclosing the point of operation before a press stroke can be initiated, and maintaining this closed condition until the motion of the slide had ceased; or
( g ) Enclosing the point of operation before a press stroke can be initiated, so as to prevent an operator from reaching into the point of operation prior to die closure or prior to cessation of slide motion during the downward stroke.
(ii) A gate or movable barrier device shall protect the operator as follows:
( a ) A Type A gate or movable barrier device shall protect the operator in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( f ) of this section, and
( b ) A Type B gate or movable barrier device shall protect the operator in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( g ) of this section.
(iii) A presence sensing point of operation device shall protect the operator as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( a ) of this section, and shall be interlocked into the control circuit to prevent or stop slide motion if the operator's hand or other part of his body is within the sensing field of the device during the downstroke of the press slide.
( a ) The device may not be used on machines using full revolution clutches.
( b ) The device may not be used as a tripping means to initiate slide motion, except when used in total conformance with paragraph (h) of this section.
( c ) The device shall be constructed so that a failure within the system does not prevent the normal stopping action from being applied to the press when required, but does prevent the initiation of a successive stroke until the failure is corrected. The failure shall be indicated by the system.
( d ) Muting (bypassing of the protective function) of such device, during the upstroke of the press slide, is permitted for the purpose of parts ejection, circuit checking, and feeding.
( e ) The safety distance (D s ) from the sensing field to the point of operation shall be greater than the distance determined by the following formula:
D s = 63 inches/second x T s
( f ) Guards shall be used to protect all areas of entry to the point of operation not protected by the presence sensing device.
