§ 1910.266 Logging operations.
(xiii) Deflectors shall be installed in front of each cab to deflect whipping saplings and branches. Deflectors shall be located so as not to impede visibility and access to the cab.
(xiv) The height of each cab entrance shall be at least 52 inches (1.3 meters) from the floor of the cab.
(xv) Each machine operated near cable yarding operations shall be equipped with sheds or roofs of sufficient strength to provide protection from breaking lines.
(4) Overhead guards. Each forklift shall be equipped with an overhead guard meeting the requirements of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, ASME B56.6-1992 (with addenda), "Safety Standard for Rough Terrain Forklift Trucks", which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6.
(5) Machine access. (i) Machine access systems, meeting the specifications of the Society of Automotive Engineers, SAE J185, June 1988, "Recommended Practice for Access Systems for Off-Road Machines", which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6, shall be provided for each machine where the operator or any other employee must climb onto the machine to enter the cab or to perform maintenance.
(ii) Each machine cab shall have a second means of egress.
(iii) Walking and working surfaces of each machine and machine work station shall have a slip resistant surface to assure safe footing.
(iv) The walking and working surface of each machine shall be kept free of waste, debris and any other material which might result in fire, slipping, or falling.
(6) Exhaust systems. (i) The exhaust pipes on each machine shall be located so exhaust gases are directed away from the operator.
(ii) The exhaust pipes on each machine shall be mounted or guarded to protect each employee from accidental contact.
(iii) The exhaust pipes shall be equipped with spark arresters. Engines equipped with turbochargers do not require spark arresters.
(iv) Each machine muffler provided by the manufacturer, or their equivalent, shall be in place at all times the machine is in operation.
(7) Brakes. (i) Service brakes shall be sufficient to stop and hold each machine and its rated load capacity on the slopes over which it is being operated.
