§ 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
(ii) Before anyone lowers tools or material into the opening for a manhole or vault, each employee working in the manhole or vault shall be clear of the area directly under the opening.
(3) Attendants for manholes and vaults. (i) While work is being performed in a manhole or vault containing energized electric equipment, an employee with first-aid training shall be available on the surface in the immediate vicinity of the manhole or vault entrance to render emergency assistance.
(ii) Occasionally, the employee on the surface may briefly enter a manhole or vault to provide nonemergency assistance.
Note: Note 1 to paragraph ( t )(3)( ii ): Paragraph (e)(7) of this section may also require an attendant and does not permit this attendant to enter the manhole or vault.
Note: Note 2 to paragraph ( t )(3)( ii ): Paragraph (l)(1)(ii) of this section requires employees entering manholes or vaults containing unguarded, uninsulated energized lines or parts of electric equipment operating at 50 volts or more to be qualified.
(iii) For the purpose of inspection, housekeeping, taking readings, or similar work, an employee working alone may enter, for brief periods of time, a manhole or vault where energized cables or equipment are in service if the employer can demonstrate that the employee will be protected from all electrical hazards.
(iv) The employer shall ensure that employees maintain reliable communications, through two-way radios or other equivalent means, among all employees involved in the job.
(4) Duct rods. The employer shall ensure that, if employees use duct rods, the employees install the duct rods in the direction presenting the least hazard to employees. The employer shall station an employee at the far end of the duct line being rodded to ensure that the employees maintain the required minimum approach distances.
(5) Multiple cables. When multiple cables are present in a work area, the employer shall identify the cable to be worked by electrical means, unless its identity is obvious by reason of distinctive appearance or location or by other readily apparent means of identification. The employer shall protect cables other than the one being worked from damage.
