§ 1910.502 Healthcare.
(C) Notify other employers whose employees were not wearing respirators and any other required PPE and have been in close contact with that person, or worked in a well-defined portion of a workplace ( e.g., a particular floor) in which that person was present, during the potential transmission period. The potential transmission period runs from 2 days before the person felt sick (or, for asymptomatic people, 2 days prior to test specimen collection) until the time the person is isolated. The notification must specify the date(s) the person with COVID-19 was in the workplace during the potential transmission period and the location(s) where the person with COVID-19 was in the workplace.
(ii) The notifications required by paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section must not include any employee's name, contact information ( e.g., phone number, email address), or occupation.
(iii) The notification provisions are not triggered by the presence of a patient with confirmed COVID-19 in a workplace where services are normally provided to suspected or confirmed COVID-19 patients ( e.g., emergency rooms, urgent care facilities, COVID-19 testing sites, COVID-19 wards in hospitals).
(4) Medical removal from the workplace. (i) If the employer knows an employee meets the criteria listed in paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section, then the employer must immediately remove that employee and keep the employee removed until they meet the return to work criteria in paragraph (l)(6) of this section.
(ii) If the employer knows an employee meets the criteria listed in paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section, then the employer must immediately remove that employee and either:
(A) Keep the employee removed until they meet the return to work criteria in paragraph (l)(6) of this section; or
(B) Keep the employee removed and provide a COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test at no cost to the employee.
( 1 ) If the test results are negative, the employee may return to work immediately.
( 2 ) If the test results are positive, the employer must comply with paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section.
