§ 1910.263 Bakery equipment.
( a ) Engage both hands of the operator, when the agitator is in motion under power, and while the bowl is opened more than one-fifth of its total opening.
( b ) Prevent the agitator from being started, while the bowl is more than one-fifth open, without engaging both hands of the operator;
(vi)-(vii) [Reserved]
(viii) Every mixer shall be equipped with a full enclosure over the bowl which is closed at all times while the agitator is in motion. Only minor openings in this enclosure, such as ingredient doors, flour inlets, etc., each representing less than 1 1/2 square feet in area, shall be capable of being opened while the mixer is in operation.
(ix) [Reserved]
(x) Overhead covers or doors which are subject to accidental closure shall be counterbalanced to remain in an open position or provided with means to hold them open until positively released by the operator.
(xi)-(xvii) [Reserved]
(xviii) Valves and controls to regulate the coolant in mixer jackets shall be located so as to permit access by the operator without jeopardizing his safety.
(2) Vertical mixers. (i) Vertical mixers shall comply with paragraphs (e)(1) (i), (iii), (ix) and (x), of this section.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Bowl locking devices shall be of a positive type which require the attention of the operator for unlocking.
(iv) Devices shall be made available for moving bowls weighing more than 80 pounds, with contents, into and out of the mixing position on the machine.
(f) Dividers. (1)-(2) [Reserved]
(3) Rear of divider. The back of the divider shall have a complete cover to enclose all of the moving parts, or each individual part shall be enclosed or guarded to remove the separate hazards. The rear cover shall be provided with a limit switch in order that the machine cannot operate when this cover is open. The guard on the back shall be hinged so that it cannot be completely removed and if a catch or brace is provided for holding the cover open, it shall be designed so that it will not release due to vibrations or minor bumping whereby the cover may drop on an employee.
