§ 1910.1044 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane.
(3) Waste disposal. DBCP waste scrap, debris, containers or equipment, shall be disposed of in sealed bags or other closed containers which prevent dispersion of DBCP outside the container.
(l) Hygiene facilities and practices —(1) Change rooms. The employer shall provide clean change rooms equipped with storage facilities for street clothes and separate storage facilities for protective clothing and equipment whenever employees are required to wear protective clothing and equipment in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (j) of this section.
(2) Showers. (i) The employer shall assure that employees working in the regulated area shower at the end of the work shift.
(ii) The employer shall assure that employees whose skin becomes contaminated with DBCP-containing liquids or solids immediately wash or shower to remove any DBCP from the skin.
(iii) The employer shall provide shower facilities in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.141(d)(3).
(3) Lunchrooms. The employer shall provide lunchroom facilities which have a temperature controlled, positive pressure, filtered air supply, and which are readily accessible to employees working in regulated areas.
(4) Lavatories. (i) The employer shall assure that employees working in the regulated area remove protective clothing and wash their hands and face prior to eating.
(ii) The employer shall provide a sufficient number of lavatory facilities which comply with 29 CFR 1910.141(d) (1) and (2).
(5) Prohibition of activities in regulated areas. The employer shall assure that, in regulated areas, food or beverages are not present or consumed, smoking products and implements are not present or used, and cosmetics are not present or applied.
(m) Medical surveillance —(1) General. (i) The employer shall make available a medical surveillance program for employees who work in regulated areas and employees who are subjected to DBCP exposures in an emergency situation.
(ii) All medical examinations and procedures shall be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, and shall be provided without cost to the employee.
(2) Frequency and content. At the time of initial assignment, and annually thereafter, the employer shall provide a medical examination for employees who work in regulated areas, which includes at least the following:
(i) A medical and occupational history including reproductive history.
