§ 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
( c ) Low-pressure tanks and pressure vessels shall be adequately vented to prevent development of pressure or vacuum, as a result of filling or emptying and atmospheric temperature changes, from exceeding the design pressure of the tank or vessel. Protection shall also be provided to prevent overpressure from any pump discharging into the tank or vessel when the pump discharge pressure can exceed the design pressure of the tank or vessel.
( d ) If any tank or pressure vessel has more than one fill or withdrawal connection and simultaneous filling or withdrawal can be made, the vent size shall be based on the maximum anticipated simultaneous flow.
( e ) Unless the vent is designed to limit the internal pressure 2.5 p.s.i. or less, the outlet of vents and vent drains shall be arranged to discharge in such a manner as to prevent localized overheating of any part of the tank in the event vapors from such vents are ignited.
( f )( 1 ) Tanks and pressure vessels storing Category 1 flammable liquids shall be equipped with venting devices which shall be normally closed except when venting to pressure or vacuum conditions. Tanks and pressure vessels storing Category 2 flammable liquids and Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C) shall be equipped with venting devices which shall be normally closed except when venting under pressure or vacuum conditions, or with approved flame arresters.
( 2 ) Exemption: Tanks of 3,000 bbls (barrels). capacity or less containing crude petroleum in crude-producing areas and outside aboveground atmospheric tanks under 1,000 gallons capacity containing other than Category 1 flammable liquids may have open vents. ( See paragraph (b)(2)(vi)( b ) of this section.)
( g ) Flame arresters or venting devices required in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)( f ) of this section may be omitted for Category 2 flammable liquids and Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 degrees F (37.8 degrees C) where conditions are such that their use may, in case of obstruction, result in tank damage.
(v) Emergency relief venting for fire exposure for aboveground tanks. ( a ) Every aboveground storage tank shall have some form of construction or device that will relieve excessive internal pressure caused by exposure fires.
