§ 1910.252 General requirements.
(B) In sprinklered buildings while such protection is impaired. (C) In the presence of explosive atmospheres (mixtures of flammable gases, vapors, liquids, or dusts with air), or explosive atmospheres that may develop inside uncleaned or improperly prepared tanks or equipment which have previously contained such materials, or that may develop in areas with an accumulation of combustible dusts. (D) In areas near the storage of large quantities of exposed, readily ignitible materials such as bulk sulfur, baled paper, or cotton. (vii) Relocation of combustibles. Where practicable, all combustibles shall be relocated at least 35 feet (10.7 m) from the work site. Where relocation is impracticable, combustibles shall be protected with flameproofed covers or otherwise shielded with metal or asbestos guards or curtains. (viii) Ducts. Ducts and conveyor systems that might carry sparks to distant combustibles shall be suitably protected or shut down. (ix) Combustible walls. Where cutting or welding is done near walls, partitions, ceiling or roof of combustible construction, fire-resistant shields or guards shall be provided to prevent ignition. (x) Noncombustible walls. If welding is to be done on a metal wall, partition, ceiling or roof, precautions shall be taken to prevent ignition of combustibles on the other side, due to conduction or radiation, preferably by relocating combustibles. Where combustibles are not relocated, a fire watch on the opposite side from the work shall be provided. (xi) Combustible cover. Welding shall not be attempted on a metal partition, wall, ceiling or roof having a combustible covering nor on walls or partitions of combustible sandwich-type panel construction. (xii) Pipes. Cutting or welding on pipes or other metal in contact with combustible walls, partitions, ceilings or roofs shall not be undertaken if the work is close enough to cause ignition by conduction. (xiii) Management. Management shall recognize its responsibility for the safe usage of cutting and welding equipment on its property and: (A) Based on fire potentials of plant facilities, establish areas for cutting and welding, and establish procedures for cutting and welding, in other areas. (B) Designate an individual responsible for authorizing cutting and welding operations in areas not specifically designed