§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
(c) Safeguarding the point of operation —(1) General requirements. (i) It shall be the responsibility of the employer to provide and insure the usage of "point of operation guards" or properly applied and adjusted point of operation devices on every operation performed on a mechanical power press. See Table O-10.
(ii) The requirement of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall not apply when the point of operation opening is one-fourth inch or less. See Table O-10.
(2) Point of operation guards. (i) Every point of operation guard shall meet the following design, construction, application, and adjustment requirements:
( a ) It shall prevent entry of hands or fingers into the point of operation by reaching through, over, under or around the guard;
( b ) It shall conform to the maximum permissible openings of Table O-10;
( c ) It shall, in itself, create no pinch point between the guard and moving machine parts;
( d ) It shall utilize fasteners not readily removable by operator, so as to minimize the possibility of misuse or removal of essential parts;
( e ) It shall facilitate its inspection, and
( f ) It shall offer maximum visibility of the point of operation consistent with the other requirements.
(ii) A die enclosure guard shall be attached to the die shoe or stripper in a fixed position.
(iii) A fixed barrier guard shall be attached securely to the frame of the press or to the bolster plate.
(iv) An interlocked press barrier guard shall be attached to the press frame or bolster and shall be interlocked with the press clutch control so that the clutch cannot be activated unless the guard itself, or the hinged or movable sections of the guard are in position to conform to the requirements of Table O-10.
(v) The hinged or movable sections of an interlocked press barrier guard shall not be used for manual feeding. The guard shall prevent opening of the interlocked section and reaching into the point of operation prior to die closure or prior to the cessation of slide motion. See paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section regarding manual feeding through interlocked press barrier devices.
