§ 1910.1051 1,3-Butadiene.
(iv) The employer shall not implement a schedule of employee rotation as a means of compliance with the PELs.
(g) Exposure Goal Program. (1) For those operations and job classifications where employee exposures are greater than the action level, in addition to compliance with the PELs, the employer shall have an exposure goal program that is intended to limit employee exposures to below the action level during normal operations.
(2) Written plans for the exposure goal program shall be furnished upon request for examination and copying to the Assistant Secretary, the Director, affected employees and designated employee representatives.
(3) Such plans shall be updated as necessary to reflect significant changes in the status of the exposure goal program.
(4) Respirator use is not required in the exposure goal program.
(5) The exposure goal program shall include the following items unless the employer can demonstrate that the item is not feasible, will have no significant effect in reducing employee exposures, or is not necessary to achieve exposures below the action level:
(i) A leak prevention, detection, and repair program.
(ii) A program for maintaining the effectiveness of local exhaust ventilation systems.
(iii) The use of pump exposure control technology such as, but not limited to, mechanical double-sealed or seal-less pumps.
(iv) Gauging devices designed to limit employee exposure, such as magnetic gauges on rail cars.
(v) Unloading devices designed to limit employee exposure, such as a vapor return system.
(vi) A program to maintain BD concentration below the action level in control rooms by use of engineering controls.
(h) Respiratory protection —(1) General. For employees who use respirators required by this section, the employer must provide each employee an appropriate respirator that complies with the requirements of this paragraph. Respirators must be used during:
(i) Periods necessary to install or implement feasible engineering and work-practice controls.
(ii) Non-routine work operations that are performed infrequently and for which employee exposures are limited in duration.
(iii) Work operations for which feasible engineering and work-practice controls are not yet sufficient to reduce employee exposures to or below the PELs.
(iv) Emergencies.
