§ 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
(v) The sweep device may not be used for point of operation safeguarding.
(vi) A holdout or a restraint device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( c ) of this section and shall include attachments for each of the operator's hands. Such attachments shall be securely anchored and adjusted in such a way that the operator is restrained from reaching into the point of operation. A separate set of restraints shall be provided for each operator if more than one operator is required on a press.
(vii) The two hand control device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( e ) of this section.
( a ) When used in press operations requiring more than one operator, separate two hand controls shall be provided for each operator, and shall be designed to require concurrent application of all operators' controls to activate the slide. The removal of a hand from any control button shall cause the slide to stop.
( b ) Each two hand control shall meet the construction requirements of paragraph (b)(7)(v) of this section.
( c ) The safety distance (D s ) between each two hand control device and the point of operation shall be greater than the distance determined by the following formula:
D s = 63 inches/second x T s ;
( d ) Two hand controls shall be fixed in position so that only a supervisor or safety engineer is capable of relocating the controls.
(viii) The two hand trip device shall protect the operator as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)( e ) of this section.
( a ) When used in press operations requiring more than one operator, separate two hand trips shall be provided for each operator, and shall be designed to require concurrent application of all operators' to activate the slide.
( b ) Each two hand trip shall meet the construction requirements of paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
( c ) The safety distance (D m ) between the two hand trip and the point of operation shall be greater than the distance determined by the following formula:
D m = 63 inches/second x T m ;
( d ) Two hand trips shall be fixed in position so that only a supervisor or safety engineer is capable of relocating the controls.
