§ 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
(j) Small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and small arms propellants —(1) Scope. This paragraph does not apply to in-process storage and intraplant transportation during manufacture of small arms ammunition, small arms primers, and smokeless propellants.
(2) Small arms ammunition. (i) No quantity limitations are imposed on the storage of small arms ammunition in warehouses, retail stores, and other general occupancy facilities, except those imposed by limitations of storage facilities.
(ii) Small arms ammunition shall be separated from flammable liquids, flammable solids as classified in 49 CFR part 172, and from oxidizing materials, by a fire-resistive wall of 1-hour rating or by a distance of 25 feet.
(iii) Small arms ammunition shall not be stored together with Class A or Class B explosives unless the storage facility is adequate for this latter storage.
(3) Smokeless propellants. (i) All smokeless propellants shall be stored in shipping containers specified in 49 CFR 173.93 for smokeless propellants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Commercial stocks of smokeless propellants over 20 pounds and not more than 100 pounds shall be stored in portable wooden boxes having walls of at least 1 inch nominal thickness.
(iv) Commercial stocks in quantities not to exceed 750 pounds shall be stored in nonportable storage cabinets having wooden walls of at least 1 inch nominal thickness. Not more than 400 pounds shall be permitted in any one cabinet.
(v) Quantities in excess of 750 pounds shall be stored in magazines in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(4) Small arms ammunition primers. (i) Small arms ammunition primers shall not be stored except in the original shipping container in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 173.107 for small arms ammunition primers.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Small arms ammunition primers shall be separated from flammable liquids, flammable solids as classified in 49 CFR part 172, and oxidizing materials by a fire-resistive wall of 1-hour rating or by a distance of 25 feet.
