§ 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
( b ) Fire exposure determined in accordance with Compressed Gas Association (CGA) S-1, part 3, Safety Relief Device Standards for Compressed Gas Storage Containers, 1959, which is incorporated by reference as specified in § 1910.6, except that "A" shall be the total exposed surface area in square feet up to 25 foot above grade or to the equator of the storage container if it is a sphere, whichever is greater. If the relieving capacity required for fire exposure is greater than that required by ( a ) of this subdivision, the additional capacity may be provided by weak roof to shell seams in containers operating at essentially atmospheric pressure and having an inherently weak roof-to-shell seam. The weak roof-to-shell seam is not to be considered as providing any of the capacity required in ( a ) of this subdivision.
(iii) If vent lines are installed to conduct the vapors from the relief valve, the back pressure under full relieving conditions shall not exceed 50 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure for pressure balanced valves or 10 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure for conventional valves. The vent lines shall be installed to prevent accumulation of liquid in the lines.
(iv) The valve or valve installation shall provide weather protection.
(v) Atmospheric storage shall be provided with vacuum breakers. Ammonia gas, nitrogen, methane, or other inert gases can be used to provide a pad.
(5) Protection of container appurtenances. Appurtenances shall be protected against tampering and physical damage.
(6) Reinstallation of refrigerated storage containers. Containers of such size as to require field fabrication shall, when moved and reinstalled, be reconstructed and reinspected in complete accordance with the requirements under which they were constructed. The containers shall be subjected to a pressure retest and if rerating is necessary, rerating shall be in accordance with applicable requirements.
(7) Damage from vehicles. Precaution shall be taken against damage from vehicles.
(8) Refrigeration load and equipment. (i) The total refrigeration load shall be computed as the sum of the following:
( a ) Load imposed by heat flow into the container caused by the temperature differential between design ambient temperature and storage temperature.
( b ) Load imposed by heat flow into the container caused by maximum sun radiation.
( c ) Maximum load imposed by filling the container with ammonia warmer than the design storage temperature.
(ii) More than one storage container may be handled by the same refrigeration system.
(9) Compressors. (i) A minimum of two compressors shall be provided either of which shall be of sufficient size to handle the loads listed in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) ( a ) and ( b ) of this section. Where more than two compressors are provided minimum standby equipment equal to the largest normally operating equipment shall be installed. Filling compressors may be used as standby equipment for holding compressors.
(ii) Compressors shall be sized to operate with a suction pressure at least 10 percent below the minimum setting of the safety valve(s) on the storage container and shall withstand a suction pressure at least equal to 120 percent of the design pressure of the container.
(10) Compressor drives. (i) Each compressor shall have its individual driving unit.
(ii) An emergency source of power of sufficient capacity to handle the loads listed in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) ( a ) and ( b ) of this section shall be provided unless facilities are available to safely dispose of vented vapors while the refrigeration system is not operating.
(11) Automatic control equipment. (i) The refrigeration system shall be arranged with suitable controls to govern the compressor operation in accordance with the load as evidenced by the pressure in the container(s).
(ii) An emergency alarm system shall be installed to function in the event the pressure in the container(s) rises to the maximum allowable operating pressure.
(iii) An emergency alarm and shutoff shall be located in the condenser system to respond to excess discharge pressure caused by failure of the cooling medium.
(iv) All automatic controls shall be installed in a manner to preclude operation of alternate compressors unless the controls will function with the alternate compressors.
(12) Separators for compressors. (i) An entrainment separator of suitable size and design pressure shall be installed in the compressor suction line of lubricated compression. The separator shall be equipped with a drain and gaging device.
(ii) [Reserved]
(13) Condensers. The condenser system may be cooled by air or water or both. The condenser shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. Provision shall be made for purging noncondensibles either manually or automatically.
(14) Receiver and liquid drain. A receiver shall be provided with a liquid-level control to discharge the liquid ammonia to storage. The receiver shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. and be equipped with the necessary connections, safety valves, and gaging device.
(15) Insulation. Refrigerated containers and pipelines which are insulated shall be covered with a material of suitable quality and thickness for the temperatures encountered. Insulation shall be suitably supported and protected against the weather. Weatherproofing shall be of a type which will not support flame propagation.
(e) Systems utilizing portable DOT containers —(1) Conformance. Cylinders shall comply with DOT specifications and shall be maintained, filled, packaged, marked, labeled, and shipped to comply with 49 CFR chapter I and the marking requirements set forth in § 1910.253(b)(1)(ii).
(2) Storage. Cylinders shall be stored in an area free from ignitable debris and in such manner as to prevent external corrosion. Storage may be indoors or outdoors.
(3) Heat protection. Cylinders filled in accordance with DOT regulations will become liquid full at 145 degrees F. Cylinders shall be protected from heat sources such as radiant flame and steampipes. Heat shall not be applied directly to cylinders to raise the pressure.
(4) Protection. Cylinders shall be stored in such manner as to protect them from moving vehicles or external damage.
(5) Valve cap. Any cylinder which is designed to have a valve protection cap shall have the cap securely in place when the cylinder is not in service.
(f) Tank motor vehicles for the transportation of ammonia. (1) This paragraph applies to containers and pertinent equipment mounted on tank motor vehicles including semitrailers and full trailers used for the transportation of ammonia. This paragraph does not apply to farm vehicles. For requirements covering farm vehicles, refer to paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted. Containers and pertinent equipment for tank motor vehicles for the transportation of anhydrous ammonia, in addition to complying with the requirements of this section, shall also comply with the requirements of DOT.
(2) Design pressure and construction of containers. (i) The minimum design pressure for containers shall be that specified in the regulations of the DOT.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall not be less than three-sixteenth inch.
(iii) All container openings, except safety relief valves, liquid-level gaging devices, and pressure gages, shall be labeled to designate whether they communicate with liquid or vapor space.
(3) Container appurtenances. (i) All appurtenances shall be protected against physical damage.
(ii) All connections to containers, except filling connections, safety relief devices, and liquid-level and pressure gage connections, shall be provided with suitable automatic excess flow valves, or in lieu thereof, may be fitted with quick-closing internal valves, which shall remain closed except during delivery operations. The control mechanism for such valves may be provided with a secondary control remote from the delivery connections and such control mechanism shall be provided with a fusible section (melting point 208 degrees F. to 220 degrees F.) which will permit the internal valve to close automatically in case of fire.
(iii) Filling connections shall be provided with automatic back-pressure check valves, excess-flow valves, or quick-closing internal valves, to prevent back-flow in case the filling connection is broken. Where the filling and discharge connect to a common opening in the container shell and that opening is fitted with a quick-closing internal valve as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the automatic valve shall not be required.
(iv) All containers shall be equipped for spray loading (filling in the vapor space) or with an approved vapor return valve of adequate capacity.
(4) Piping and fittings. (i) All piping, tubing, and fittings shall be securely mounted and protected against damage. Means shall be provided to protect hoses while the vehicle is in motion.
(ii) Fittings shall comply with paragraph (b)(6) of this section. Pipe shall be Schedule 80.
(5) Safety relief devices. (i) The discharge from safety relief valves shall be vented away from the container upward and unobstructed to the open air in such a manner as to prevent any impingement of escaping gas upon the container; loose-fitting rain caps shall be used. Size of discharge lines from safety valves shall not be smaller than the nominal size of the safety-relief valve outlet connection. Suitable provision shall be made for draining condensate which may accumulate in the discharge pipe.
(ii) Any portion of liquid ammonia piping which at any time may be closed at both ends shall be provided with a hydrostatic relief valve.
(6) Transfer of liquids. (i) The content of tank motor vehicle containers shall be determined by weight, by a suitable liquid-level gaging device, or other approved methods. If the content of a container is to be determined by liquid-level measurement, the container shall have a thermometer well so that the internal liquid temperature can be easily determined. This volume when converted to weight shall not exceed the filling density specified by the DOT.
(ii) Any pump, except a constant speed centrifugal pump, shall be equipped with a suitable pressure actuated bypass valve permitting flow from discharge to suction when the discharge pressure rises above a predetermined point. Pump discharge shall also be equipped with a spring-loaded safety relief valve set at a pressure not more than 135 percent of the setting of the bypass valve or more than 400 p.s.i.g., whichever is larger.
(iii) Compressors shall be equipped with manually operated shutoff valves on both suction and discharge connections. Pressure gages of bourdon-tube type shall be installed on the suction and discharge of the compressor before the shutoff valves. The compressor shall not be operated if either pressure gage is removed or is inoperative. A spring-loaded, safety-relief valve capable of discharging to atmosphere the full flow of gas from the compressor at a pressure not exceeding 300 p.s.i.g. shall be connected between the compressor discharge and the discharge shutoff valve.
(iv) Valve functions shall be clearly and legibly identified by metal tags or nameplates permanently affixed to each valve.
(7)-(8) [Reserved]
(9) Chock blocks. At least two chock blocks shall be provided. These blocks shall be placed to prevent rolling of the vehicle whenever it is parked during loading and unloading operations.
(10) Portable tank containers (skid tanks). Where portable tank containers are used for farm storage they shall comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section. When portable tank containers are used in lieu of cargo tanks and are permanently mounted on tank motor vehicles for the transportation of ammonia, they shall comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
(g) Systems mounted on farm vehicles other than for the application of ammonia —(1) Application. This paragraph applies to containers of 1,200 gallons capacity or less and pertinent equipment mounted on farm vehicles (implements of husbandry) and used other than for the application of ammonia to the soil. Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted.
(2) Design pressure and classification of containers. (i) The minimum design pressure for containers shall be 250 p.s.i.g.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall be not less than three-sixteenths of an inch.
(3) Mounting containers. (i) A suitable "stop" or "stops" shall be mounted on the vehicle or on the container in such a way that the container shall not be dislodged from its mounting due to the vehicle coming to a sudden stop. Back slippage shall also be prevented by proper methods.
(ii) A suitable "hold down" device shall be provided which will anchor the container to the vehicle at one or more places on each side of the container.
(iii) When containers are mounted on four-wheel trailers, care shall be taken to insure that the weight is distributed evenly over both axles.
(iv) When the cradle and the tank are not welded together suitable material shall be used between them to eliminate metal-to-metal friction.
(4) Container appurtenances. (i) All containers shall be equipped with a fixed liquid-level gage.
(ii) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped with a pressure gage having a dial graduated from 0-400 p.s.i.
(iii) The filling connection shall be fitted with combination back-pressure check valve and excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves; or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with either an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess flow valve.
(iv) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped for spray loading or with an approved vapor return valve.
(v) All vapor and liquid connections except safety-relief valves and those specifically exempted by paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section shall be equipped with approved excess-flow valves or may be fitted with quick-closing internal valves which, except during operating periods, shall remain closed.
(vi) Fittings shall be adequately protected from damage by a metal box or cylinder with open top securely fastened to the container or by rigid guards, well braced, welded to the container on both sides of the fittings or by a metal dome. If a metal dome is used, the relief valve shall be properly vented through the dome.
(vii) If a liquid withdrawal line is installed in the bottom of a container, the connections thereto, including hose, shall not be lower than the lowest horizontal edge of the vehicle axle.
(viii) Provision shall be made to secure both ends of the hose while in transit.
(5) Marking the container. There shall appear on each side and on the rear end of the container in letters at least 4 inches high, the words, "Caution—Ammonia" or the container shall be marked in accordance with DOT regulations.
(6) Farm vehicles. (i) Farm vehicles shall conform with State regulations.
(ii) All trailers shall be securely attached to the vehicle drawing them by means of drawbars supplemented by suitable safety chains.
(iii) A trailer shall be constructed so that it will follow substantially in the path of the towing vehicle and will not whip or swerve dangerously from side to side.
(iv) All vehicles shall carry a can containing 5 gallons or more of water.
(h) Systems mounted on farm vehicles for the application of ammonia. (1) This paragraph applies to systems utilizing containers of 250 gallons capacity or less which are mounted on farm vehicles (implement of husbandry) and used for the application of ammonia to the soil. Paragraph (b) of this section applies to this paragraph unless otherwise noted. Where larger containers are used, they shall comply with paragraph (g) of this section.
(2) Design pressure and classification of containers. (i) The minimum design pressure for containers shall be 250 p.s.i.g.
(ii) The shell or head thickness of any container shall not be less than three-sixteenths inch.
(3) Mounting of containers. All containers and flow-control devices shall be securely mounted.
(4) Container valves and accessories. (i) Each container shall have a fixed liquid-level gage.
(ii) The filling connection shall be fitted with a combination back-pressure check valve and an excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves: or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess-flow valve.
(iii) The applicator tank may be filled by venting to open air provided the bleeder valve orifice does not exceed seven-sixteenths inch in diameter.
(iv) Regulation equipment may be connected directly to the tank coupling or flange, in which case a flexible connection shall be used between such regulating equipment and the remainder of the liquid withdrawal system. Regulating equipment not so installed shall be flexibly connected to the container shutoff valve.
(v) No excess flow valve is required in the liquid withdrawal line provided the controlling orifice between the contents of the container and the outlet of the shutoff valve does not exceed seven-sixteenths inch in diameter.

§§ 1910.112-1910.113
[Reserved]