§ 1910.124 General requirements for dipping and coating operations.
(2) An emergency shower and eye-wash station close to the dipping or coating operation. In place of this equipment, you may use a water hose that is at least 4 feet (1.22 m) long and at least 3/4 of an inch (18 mm) thick with a quick-opening valve and carrying a pressure of 25 pounds per square inch (1.62 k/cm 2 ) or less; and
(3) At least one basin with a hot-water faucet for every 10 employees who work with such liquids. (See paragraph (d) of § 1910.141.)
(h) What treatment and first aid must I provide? When your employees work with liquids that may burn, irritate, or otherwise harm their skin, you must provide:
(1) A physician's approval before an employee with a sore, burn, or other skin lesion that requires medical treatment works in a vapor area;
(2) Treatment by a properly designated person of any small skin abrasion, cut, rash, or open sore;
(3) Appropriate first-aid supplies that are located near the dipping or coating operation; and
(4) For employees who work with chromic acid, periodic examinations of their exposed body parts, especially their nostrils.
(i) What must I do before an employee cleans a dip tank? Before permitting an employee to clean the interior of a dip tank, you must:
(1) Drain the contents of the tank and open the cleanout doors; and
(2) Ventilate and clear any pockets where hazardous vapors may have accumulated.
(j) What must I do to inspect and maintain my dipping or coating operation? You must:
(1) Inspect the hoods and ductwork of the ventilation system for corrosion or damage:
(i) At least quarterly during operation; and
(ii) Prior to operation after a prolonged shutdown.
(2) Ensure that the airflow is adequate:
(i) At least quarterly during operation; and
(ii) Prior to operation after a prolonged shutdown.
(3) Periodically inspect all dipping and coating equipment, including covers, drains, overflow piping, and electrical and fire-extinguishing systems, and promptly correct any deficiencies;
