§ 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
(K) Means of access to or egress from a working platform which is 48 inches (1.2 m) or more above a safe surface shall be provided with a guardrail system or ladder handrails that conform to the provisions of subpart D of this part.
(L) The platform shall be provided with a secondary wire rope suspension system if the platform contains overhead structures which restrict the emergency egress of employees. A horizontal lifeline or a direct connection anchorage shall be provided as part of a personal fall arrest system that meets the requirements of subpart I of this part for each employee on such a platform.
(M) A vertical lifeline shall be provided as part of a personal fall arrest system that meets the requirements of subpart I of this part for each employee on a working platform suspended by two or more wire ropes, if the failure of one wire rope or suspension attachment will cause the platform to upset. If a secondary wire rope suspension is used, vertical lifelines are not required for the personal fall arrest system, provided that each employee is attached to a horizontal lifeline anchored to the platform.
(N) An emergency electric operating device shall be provided on roof powered platforms near the hoisting machine for use in the event of failure of the normal operating device located on the working platform, or failure of the cable connected to the platform. The emergency electric operating device shall be mounted in a secured compartment, and the compartment shall be labeled with instructions for use. A means for opening the compartment shall be mounted in a break-glass receptable located near the emergency electric operating device or in an equivalent secure and accessible location.
(iii) Single point suspended working platforms. (A) The requirements of paragraphs (f)(5)(ii) (A) through (K) of this section shall also apply to a single point working platform.
(B) Each single point suspended working platform shall be provided with a secondary wire rope suspension system which will prevent the working platform from falling should there be a failure of the primary means of support, or if the platform contains overhead structures which restrict the egress of the employees. A horizontal life line or a direct connection anchorage shall be provided as part of a personal fall arrest system that meets the requirements of subpart I of this part for each employee on the platform.
(iv) Ground-rigged working platforms. (A) Groundrigged working platforms shall comply with all the requirements of paragraphs (f)(5)(ii) (A) through (M) of this section.
(B) After each day's use, the power supply within the building shall be disconnected from a ground-rigged working platform, and the platform shall be either disengaged from its suspension points or secured and stored at grade.
(v) Intermittently stabilized platforms. (A) The platform shall comply with paragraphs (F)(5)(ii) (A) through (M) of this section.
(B) Each stabilizer tie shall be equipped with a "quick connect-quick disconnect" device which cannot be accidently disengaged, for attachment to the building anchor, and shall be resistant to adverse environmental conditions.
(C) The platform shall be provided with a stopping device that will interrupt the hoist power supply in the event the platform contacts a stabilizer tie during its ascent.
(D) Building face rollers shall not be placed at the anchor setting if exterior anchors are used on the building face.
(E) Stabilizer ties used on intermittently stabilized platforms shall allow for the specific attachment length needed to effect the predetermined angulation of the suspended wire rope. The specific attachment length shall be maintained at all building anchor locations.
(F) The platform shall be in continuous contact with the face of the building during ascent and descent.
(G) The attachment and removal of stabilizer ties shall not require the horizontal movement of the platform.
(H) The platform-mounted equipment and its suspension wire ropes shall not be physically damaged by the loads from the stabilizer tie or its building anchor. The platform, platform mounted equipment and wire ropes shall be able to withstand a load that is at least twice the ultimate strength of the stabilizer tie.
Note: Note: See figure II in appendix B of this section for a description of a typical intermittent stabilization system.
(vi) Button-guide stabilized platforms. (A) The platform shall comply with paragraphs (f)(5)(ii) (A) through (M) of this section.
(B) Each guide track on the platform shall engage a minimum of two guide buttons during any vertical travel of the platform following the initial button engagement.
(C) Each guide track on a platform that is part of a roof rigged system shall be provided with a storage position on the platform.
(D) Each guide track on the platform shall be sufficiently maneuverable by platform occupants to permit easy engagement of the guide buttons, and easy movement into and out of its storage position on the platform.
(E) Two guide tracks shall be mounted on the platform and shall provide continuous contact with the building face.
(F) The load carrying components of the button guide stabilization system which transmit the load into the platform shall be capable of supporting the weight of the platform, or provision shall be made in the guide track connectors or platform attachments to prevent the weight of the platform from being transmitted to the platform attachments.
Note: Note: See figure III in appendix B of this section for a description of a typical button guide stabilization system.
(6) Supported equipment. (i) Supported equipment shall maintain a vertical position in respect to the face of the building by means other than friction.
(ii) Cog wheels or equivalent means shall be incorporated to provide climbing traction between the supported equipment and the building guides. Additional guide wheels or shoes shall be incorporated as may be necessary to ensure that the drive wheels are continuously held in positive engagement with the building guides.
(iii) Launch guide mullions indexed to the building guides and retained in alignment with the building guides shall be used to align drive wheels entering the building guides.
(iv) Manned platforms used on supported equipment shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(5)(ii)(A), (f)(5)(ii)(B), and (f)(5)(ii) (D) through (K) of this section covering suspended equipment.
(7) Suspension wire ropes and rope connections. (i) Each specific installation shall use suspension wire ropes or combination cable and connections meeting the specification recommended by the manufacturer of the hoisting machine used. Connections shall be capable of developing at least 80 percent of the rated breaking strength of the wire rope.
(ii) Each suspension rope shall have a "Design Factor" of at least 10. The "Design Factor" is the ratio of the rated strength of the suspension wire rope to the rated working load, and shall be calculated using the following formula:
ER25SE06.005
(iii) Suspension wire rope grade shall be at least improved plow steel or equivalent.
(iv) Suspension wire ropes shall be sized to conform with the required design factor, but shall not be less than 5/16 inch (7.94 mm) in diameter.
(v) No more than one reverse bend in six wire rope lays shall be permitted.
(vi) A corrosion-resistant tag shall be securely attached to one of the wire rope fastenings when a suspension wire rope is to be used at a specific location and will remain in that location. This tag shall bear the following wire rope data:
(A) The diameter (inches and/or mm);
(B) Construction classification;
(C) Whether non-preformed or preformed;
(D) The grade of material;
(E) The manufacturer's rated strength;
(F) The manufacturer's name;
(G) The month and year the ropes were installed; and
(H) The name of the person or company which installed the ropes.
(vii) A new tag shall be installed at each rope renewal.
(viii) The original tag shall be stamped with the date of the resocketing, or the original tag shall be retained and a supplemental tag shall be provided when ropes are resocketed. The supplemental tag shall show the date of resocketing and the name of the person or company that resocketed the rope.
(ix) Winding drum type hoists shall contain at least three wraps of the suspension wire rope on the drum when the suspended unit has reached the lowest possible point of its vertical travel.
(x) Traction drum and sheave type hoists shall be provided with a wire rope of sufficient length to reach the lowest possible point of vertical travel of the suspended unit, and an additional length of the wire rope of at least four feet (1.2 m).
(xi) The lengthening or repairing of suspension wire ropes is prohibited.
(xii) Babbitted fastenings for suspension wire rope are prohibited.
(8) Control circuits, power circuits and their components. (i) Electrical wiring and equipment shall comply with subpart S of this part, except as otherwise required by this section.
(ii) Electrical runway conductor systems shall be of a type designed for use in exterior locations, and shall be located so that they do not come into contact with accumulated snow or water.
(iii) Cables shall be protected against damage resulting from overtensioning or from other causes.
(iv) Devices shall be included in the control system for the equipment which will provide protection against electrical overloads, three phase reversal and phase failure. The control system shall have a separate method, independent of the direction control circuit, for breaking the power circuit in case of an emergency or malfunction.
(v) Suspended or supported equipment shall have a control system which will require the operator of the equipment to follow predetermined procedures.
(vi) The following requirements shall apply to electrical protection devices:
(A) On installations where the carriage does not have a stability factor of at least four against overturning, electrical contact(s) shall be provided and so connected that the operating devices for the suspended or supported equipment shall be operative only when the carriage is located and mechanically retained at an established operating point.
(B) Overload protection shall be provided in the hoisting or suspension system to protect against the equipment operating in the "up" direction with a load in excess of 125 percent of the rated load of the platform; and
(C) An automatic detector shall be provided for each suspension point that will interrupt power to all hoisting motors for travel in the "down" direction, and apply the primary brakes if any suspension wire rope becomes slack. A continuous-pressure rigging-bypass switch designed for use during rigging is permitted. This switch shall only be used during rigging.
(vii) Upper and lower directional switches designed to prevent the travel of suspended units beyond safe upward and downward levels shall be provided.
(viii) Emergency stop switches shall be provided on remote controlled, roof-powered manned platforms adjacent to each control station on the platform.
(ix) Cables which are in constant tension shall have overload devices which will prevent the tension in the cable from interfering with the load limiting device required in paragraph (f)(8)(vi)(B) of this section, or with the platform roll limiting device required in paragraph (f)(5)(ii)(C) of this section. The setting of these devices shall be coordinated with other overload settings at the time of design of the system, and shall be clearly indicated on or near the device. The device shall interrupt the equipment travel in the "down" direction.
(g) Inspection and tests —(1) Installations and alterations. All completed building maintenance equipment installations shall be inspected and tested in the field before being placed in initial service to determine that all parts of the installation conform to applicable requirements of this standard, and that all safety and operating equipment is functioning as required. A similar inspection and test shall be made following any major alteration to an existing installation. No hoist in an installation shall be subjected to a load in excess of 125 percent of its rated load.
(2) Periodic inspections and tests. (i) Related building supporting structures shall undergo periodic inspection by a competent person at intervals not exceeding 12 months.
(ii) All parts of the equipment including control systems shall be inspected, and, where necessary, tested by a competent person at intervals specified by the manufacturer/supplier, but not to exceed 12 months, to determine that they are in safe operating condition. Parts subject to wear, such as wire ropes, bearings, gears, and governors shall be inspected and/or tested to determine that they have not worn to such an extent as to affect the safe operation of the installation.
(iii) The building owner shall keep a certification record of each inspection and test required under paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The certification record shall include the date of the inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection, and the number, or other identifier, of the building support structure and equipment which was inspected. This certification record shall be kept readily available for review by the Assistant Secretary of Labor or the Assistant Secretary's representative and by the employer.
(iv) Working platforms and their components shall be inspected by the employer for visible defects before every use and after each occurrence which could affect the platform's structural integrity.
(3) Maintenance inspections and tests. (i) A maintenance inspection and, where necessary, a test shall be made of each platform installation every 30 days, or where the work cycle is less than 30 days such inspection and/or test shall be made prior to each work cycle. This inspection and test shall follow procedures recommended by the manufacturer, and shall be made by a competent person.
(ii) The building owner shall keep a certification record of each inspection and test performed under paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. The certification record shall include the date of the inspection and test, the signature of the person who performed the inspection and/or test, and an identifier for the platform installation which was inspected. The certification record shall be kept readily available for review by the Assistant Secretary of Labor or the Assistant Secretary's representative and by the employer.
(4) Special inspection of governors and secondary brakes. (i) Governors and secondary brakes shall be inspected and tested at intervals specified by the manufacturer/supplier but not to exceed every 12 months.
(ii) The results of the inspection and test shall confirm that the initiating device for the secondary braking system operates at the proper overspeed.
(iii) The results of the inspection and test shall confirm that the secondary brake is functioning properly.
(iv) If any hoisting machine or initiating device for the secondary brake system is removed from the equipment for testing, all reinstalled and directly related components shall be reinspected prior to returning the equipment installation to service.
(v) Inspection of governors and secondary brakes shall be performed by a competent person.
(vi) The secondary brake governor and actuation device shall be tested before each day's use. Where testing is not feasible, a visual inspection of the brake shall be made instead to ensure that it is free to operate.
(5) Suspension wire rope maintenance, inspection and replacement. (i) Suspension wire rope shall be maintained and used in accordance with procedures recommended by the wire rope manufacturer.
(ii) Suspension wire rope shall be inspected by a competent person for visible defects and gross damage to the rope before every use and after each occurrence which might affect the wire rope's integrity.
(iii) A thorough inspection of suspension wire ropes in service shall be made once a month. Suspension wire ropes that have been inactive for 30 days or longer shall have a thorough inspection before they are placed into service. These thorough inspections of suspension wire ropes shall be performed by a competent person.
(iv) The need for replacement of a suspension wire rope shall be determined by inspection and shall be based on the condition of the wire rope. Any of the following conditions or combination of conditions will be cause for removal of the wire rope:
(A) Broken wires exceeding three wires in one strand or six wires in one rope lay;
(B) Distortion of rope structure such as would result from crushing or kinking;
(C) Evidence of heat damage;
(D) Evidence of rope deterioration from corrosion;
(E) A broken wire within 18 inches (460.8 mm) of the end attachments;
(F) Noticeable rusting and pitting;
(G) Evidence of core failure (a lengthening of rope lay, protrusion of the rope core and a reduction in rope diameter suggests core failure); or
(H) More than one valley break (broken wire).
(I) Outer wire wear exceeds one-third of the original outer wire diameter.
(J) Any other condition which the competent person determines has significantly affected the integrity of the rope.
(v) The building owner shall keep a certification record of each monthly inspection of a suspension wire rope as required in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section. The record shall include the date of the inspection, the signature of the person who performed the inspection, and a number, or other identifier, of the wire rope which was inspected. This record of inspection shall be made available for review by the Assistant Secretary of Labor or the Assistant Secretary's representative and by the employer.
(6) Hoist inspection. Before lowering personnel below the top elevation of the building, the hoist shall be tested each day in the lifting direction with the intended load to make certain it has sufficient capacity to raise the personnel back to the boarding level.
(h) Maintenance —(1) General maintenance. All parts of the equipment affecting safe operation shall be maintained in proper working order so that they may perform the functions for which they were intended. The equipment shall be taken out of service when it is not in proper working order.
(2) Cleaning. (i) Control or power contactors and relays shall be kept clean.
(ii) All other parts shall be kept clean if their proper functioning would be affected by the presence of dirt or other contaminants.
(3) Periodic resocketing of wire rope fastenings. (i) Hoisting ropes utilizing poured socket fastenings shall be resocketed at the non-drum ends at intervals not exceeding 24 months. In resocketing the ropes, a sufficient length shall be cut from the end of the rope to remove damaged or fatigued portions.
(ii) Resocketed ropes shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (f)(7) of this section.
(iii) Limit switches affected by the resocketed ropes shall be reset, if necessary.
(4) Periodic reshackling of suspension wire ropes. The hoisting ropes shall be reshackled at the nondrum ends at intervals not exceeding 24 months. When reshackling the ropes, a sufficient length shall be cut from the end of the rope to remove damaged or fatigued portions.
(5) Roof systems. Roof track systems, tie-downs, or similar equipment shall be maintained in proper working order so that they perform the function for which they were intended.
(6) Building face guiding members. T-rails, indented mullions, or equivalent guides located in the face of a building shall be maintained in proper working order so that they perform the functions for which they were intended. Brackets for cable stabilizers shall similarly be maintained in proper working order.
(7) Inoperative safety devices. No person shall render a required safety device or electrical protective device inoperative, except as necessary for tests, inspections, and maintenance. Immediately upon completion of such tests, inspections and maintenance, the device shall be restored to its normal operating condition.
(i) Operations —(1) Training. (i) Working platforms shall be operated only by persons who are proficient in the operation, safe use and inspection of the particular working platform to be operated.
(ii) All employees who operate working platforms shall be trained in the following:
(A) Recognition of, and preventive measures for, the safety hazards associated with their individual work tasks.
(B) General recognition and prevention of safety hazards associated with the use of working platforms, including the provisions in the section relating to the particular working platform to be operated.
(C) Emergency action plan procedures required in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
(D) Work procedures required in paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this section.
(E) Personal fall arrest system inspection, care, use and system performance.
(iii) Training of employees in the operation and inspection of working platforms shall be done by a competent person.
(iv) Written work procedures for the operation, safe use and inspection of working platforms shall be provided for employee training. Pictorial methods of instruction, may be used, in lieu of written work procedures, if employee communication is improved using this method. The operating manuals supplied by manufacturers for platform system components can serve as the basis for these procedures.
(v) The employer shall certify that employees have been trained in operating and inspecting a working platform by preparing a certification record which includes the identity of the person trained, the signature of the employer or the person who conducted the training and the date that training was completed. The certification record shall be prepared at the completion of the training required in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, and shall be maintained in a file for the duration of the employee's employment. The certification record shall be kept readily available for review by the Assistant Secretary of Labor or the Assistant Secretary's representative.
(2) Use. (i) Working platforms shall not be loaded in excess of the rated load, as stated on the platform load rating plate.
(ii) Employees shall be prohibited from working on snow, ice, or other slippery material covering platforms, except for the removal of such materials.
(iii) Adequate precautions shall be taken to protect the platform, wire ropes and life lines from damage due to acids or other corrosive substances, in accordance with the recommendations of the corrosive substance producer, supplier, platform manufacturer or other equivalent information sources. Platform members which have been exposed to acids or other corrosive substances shall be washed down with a neutralizing solution, at a frequency recommended by the corrosive substance producer or supplier.
(iv) Platform members, wire ropes and life lines shall be protected when using a heat producing process. Wire ropes and life lines which have been contacted by the heat producing process shall be considered to be permanently damaged and shall not be used.
(v) The platform shall not be operated in winds in excess of 25 miles per hour (40.2 km/hr) except to move it from an operating to a storage position. Wind speed shall be determined based on the best available information, which includes on-site anemometer readings and local weather forecasts which predict wind velocities for the area.
(vi) On exterior installations, an anemometer shall be mounted on the platform to provide information of on-site wind velocities prior to and during the use of the platform. The anemometer may be a portable (hand held) unit which is temporarily mounted during platform use.
(vii) Tools, materials and debris not related to the work in progress shall not be allowed to accumulate on platforms. Stabilizer ties shall be located so as to allow unencumbered passage along the full length of the platform and shall be of such length so as not to become entangled in rollers, hoists or other machinery.
(j) Personal fall protection. Employees on working platforms shall be protected by a personal fall arrest system meeting the requirements of subpart I of this part and as otherwise provided by this standard.
EC27OC91.012
EC27OC91.013
EC27OC91.014