§ 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
( b ) Systems utilizing containers having a water capacity greater than 2 1/2 pounds (nominal 1 pound LP-Gas capacity) shall be equipped with excess flow valves. Such excess flow valves shall be either integral with the container valves or in the connections to the container valve outlets. In either case, an excess flow valve shall be installed in such a manner that any undue strain beyond the excess flow valve will not cause breakage between the container and the excess flow valve. The installation of excess flow valves shall take into account the type of valve protection provided.
( c ) Regulators, if used, shall be either directly connected to the container valves or to manifolds connected to the container values. The regulator shall be suitable for use with LP-Gas. Manifolds and fittings connecting containers to pressure regulator inlets shall be designed for at least 250 p.s.i.g. service pressure.
( d ) Valves on containers having a water capacity greater than 50 pounds (nominal 20 pounds LP-Gas capacity) shall be protected while in use.
( e ) Containers shall be marked in accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section and paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
( f ) Pipe or tubing shall conform to paragraph (b)(8) of this section except that aluminum pipe or tubing shall not be used.
( g )( 1 ) Hose shall be designed for a working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g. Hose and hose connections shall have their correctness as to design, construction and performance determined by listing by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. The hose length may exceed the length specified in paragraph (b)(9)(vii)( b ) of this section, but shall be as short as practicable. Refer to § 1910.7 for definition of nationally recognized testing laboratory.
( 2 ) Hose shall be long enough to permit compliance with spacing provisions of this subparagraph without kinking or straining or causing hose to be so close to a burner as to be damaged by heat.
