§ 1910.178 Powered industrial trucks.
(6) A safe distance shall be maintained from the edge of ramps or platforms while on any elevated dock, or platform or freight car. Trucks shall not be used for opening or closing freight doors.
(7) Brakes shall be set and wheel blocks shall be in place to prevent movement of trucks, trailers, or railroad cars while loading or unloading. Fixed jacks may be necessary to support a semitrailer during loading or unloading when the trailer is not coupled to a tractor. The flooring of trucks, trailers, and railroad cars shall be checked for breaks and weakness before they are driven onto.
(8) There shall be sufficient headroom under overhead installations, lights, pipes, sprinkler system, etc.
(9) An overhead guard shall be used as protection against falling objects. It should be noted that an overhead guard is intended to offer protection from the impact of small packages, boxes, bagged material, etc., representative of the job application, but not to withstand the impact of a falling capacity load.
(10) A load backrest extension shall be used whenever necessary to minimize the possibility of the load or part of it from falling rearward.
(11) Only approved industrial trucks shall be used in hazardous locations.
(12)-(13) [Reserved]
(14) Fire aisles, access to stairways, and fire equipment shall be kept clear.
(n) Traveling. (1) All traffic regulations shall be observed, including authorized plant speed limits. A safe distance shall be maintained approximately three truck lengths from the truck ahead, and the truck shall be kept under control at all times.
(2) The right of way shall be yielded to ambulances, fire trucks, or other vehicles in emergency situations.
(3) Other trucks traveling in the same direction at intersections, blind spots, or other dangerous locations shall not be passed.
(4) The driver shall be required to slow down and sound the horn at cross aisles and other locations where vision is obstructed. If the load being carried obstructs forward view, the driver shall be required to travel with the load trailing.
(5) Railroad tracks shall be crossed diagonally wherever possible. Parking closer than 8 feet from the center of railroad tracks is prohibited.
(6) The driver shall be required to look in the direction of, and keep a clear view of the path of travel.
(7) Grades shall be ascended or descended slowly.
