§ 1910.265 Sawmills.
(4) Walkways, docks, and platforms —(i) Width. Walkways, docks, and platforms shall be of sufficient width to provide adequate passage and working areas.
(ii) Maintenance. Walkways shall be evenly floored and kept in good repair.
(iii) Docks. Docks and runways used for the operation of lift trucks and other vehicles shall have a substantial guard or shear timber except where loading and unloading are being performed.
(iv) Elevated walks. All elevated walks, runways, or platforms, if 4 feet or more from the floor level, shall be provided with a standard railing except on loading or unloading sides of platforms. If height exceeds 6 feet, a standard toe board also shall be provided to prevent material from rolling or falling off.
(v) Elevated platforms. Where elevated platforms are used routinely on a daily basis, they shall be equipped with stairways or fixed ladders that comply with subpart D of this part.
(vi) Hazardous locations. Where required, walkways and stairways with standard handrails shall be provided in elevated and hazardous locations. Where such passageways are over walkways or work areas, standard toe boards shall be provided.
(5) Stairways —(i) Construction. Stairways shall be constructed in accordance with subpart D of this part.
(ii) Handrails. Stairways shall be provided with a standard handrail on at least one side or on any open side. Where stairs are more than four feet wide there shall be a standard handrail at each side, and where more than eight feet wide, a third standard handrail shall be erected in the center of the stairway.
(iii) Lighting. All stairways shall be adequately lighted as prescribed in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.
(6) Emergency exits including doors and fire escapes —(i) Opening. Doors shall not open directly on or block a flight of stairs, and shall swing in the direction of exit travel.
(ii) Identification. Exits shall be located and identified in a manner that affords ready exit from all work areas.
(iii) Swinging doors. All swinging doors shall be provided with windows; with one window for each section of double swinging doors. Such windows shall be of shatterproof or safety glass unless otherwise protected against breakage.
