§ 1910.1030 Bloodborne pathogens.
(a) Scope and Application. This section applies to all occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials as defined by paragraph (b) of this section. (b) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following shall apply: Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, or designated representative. Blood means human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood. Bloodborne Pathogens means pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Clinical Laboratory means a workplace where diagnostic or other screening procedures are performed on blood or other potentially infectious materials. Contaminated means the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other potentially infectious materials on an item or surface. Contaminated Laundry means laundry which has been soiled with blood or other potentially infectious materials or may contain sharps. Contaminated Sharps means any contaminated object that can penetrate the skin including, but not limited to, needles, scalpels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental wires. Decontamination means the use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or disposal. Director means the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designated representative. Engineering controls means controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-sheathing needles, safer medical devices, such as sharps with engineered sharps injury protections and needleless systems) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard from the workplace. Exposure Incident means a specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the performance of an employee's duties. Handwashing facilities means a facility providing an adequate supply of running potable water, soap, and single-use towels or air-drying machines. Licensed Healthcare Professional is a person whose legally permitted scope of practice allows him or her to independently perform the activities required by paragraph (f) Hepatitis B Vaccination and Post-exposure Evaluation and Follow-up. HBV means