§ 1910.95 Occupational noise exposure.
(i) The effects of noise on hearing;
(ii) The purpose of hearing protectors, the advantages, disadvantages, and attenuation of various types, and instructions on selection, fitting, use, and care; and
(iii) The purpose of audiometric testing, and an explanation of the test procedures.
(l) Access to information and training materials. (1) The employer shall make available to affected employees or their representatives copies of this standard and shall also post a copy in the workplace.
(2) The employer shall provide to affected employees any informational materials pertaining to the standard that are supplied to the employer by the Assistant Secretary.
(3) The employer shall provide, upon request, all materials related to the employer's training and education program pertaining to this standard to the Assistant Secretary and the Director.
(m) Recordkeeping —(1) Exposure measurements. The employer shall maintain an accurate record of all employee exposure measurements required by paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Audiometric tests. (i) The employer shall retain all employee audiometric test records obtained pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section:
(ii) This record shall include:
(A) Name and job classification of the employee;
(B) Date of the audiogram;
(C) The examiner's name;
(D) Date of the last acoustic or exhaustive calibration of the audiometer; and
(E) Employee's most recent noise exposure assessment.
(F) The employer shall maintain accurate records of the measurements of the background sound pressure levels in audiometric test rooms.
(3) Record retention. The employer shall retain records required in this paragraph (m) for at least the following periods.
(i) Noise exposure measurement records shall be retained for two years.
(ii) Audiometric test records shall be retained for the duration of the affected employee's employment.
(4) Access to records. All records required by this section shall be provided upon request to employees, former employees, representatives designated by the individual employee, and the Assistant Secretary. The provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1020 (a)-(e) and (g)-(i) apply to access to records under this section.
