§ 1910.1026 Chromium (VI).
(ii) Bags or containers of waste, scrap, debris, and any other materials contaminated with chromium (VI) that are consigned for disposal are labeled in accordance with the requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1200.
(k) Medical surveillance —(1) General. (i) The employer shall make medical surveillance available at no cost to the employee, and at a reasonable time and place, for all employees:
(A) Who are or may be occupationally exposed to chromium (VI) at or above the action level for 30 or more days a year;
(B) Experiencing signs or symptoms of the adverse health effects associated with chromium (VI) exposure; or
(C) Exposed in an emergency.
(ii) The employer shall assure that all medical examinations and procedures required by this section are performed by or under the supervision of a PLHCP.
(2) Frequency. The employer shall provide a medical examination:
(i) Within 30 days after initial assignment, unless the employee has received a chromium (VI) related medical examination that meets the requirements of this paragraph within the last twelve months;
(ii) Annually;
(iii) Within 30 days after a PLHCP's written medical opinion recommends an additional examination;
(iv) Whenever an employee shows signs or symptoms of the adverse health effects associated with chromium (VI) exposure;
(v) Within 30 days after exposure during an emergency which results in an uncontrolled release of chromium (VI); or
(vi) At the termination of employment, unless the last examination that satisfied the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section was less than six months prior to the date of termination.
(3) Contents of examination. A medical examination consists of:
(i) A medical and work history, with emphasis on: Past, present, and anticipated future exposure to chromium (VI); any history of respiratory system dysfunction; any history of asthma, dermatitis, skin ulceration, or nasal septum perforation; and smoking status and history;
(ii) A physical examination of the skin and respiratory tract; and
(iii) Any additional tests deemed appropriate by the examining PLHCP.
(4) Information provided to the PLHCP. The employer shall ensure that the examining PLHCP has a copy of this standard, and shall provide the following information:
